---
title: Monitor Switches
author: Cumulus Networks
weight: 95
aliases:
 - /display/NETQ/Monitor+Switches
 - /pages/viewpage.action?pageId=10457038
pageID: 10457038
product: Cumulus NetQ
version: '2.1'
imgData: cumulus-netq
siteSlug: cumulus-netq
---
With the NetQ UI, you can monitor individual switches separately from
the network. You are able to view the status of services they are
running, health of its various components, and connectivity performance.
Being able to monitor switch component inventory aids in upgrade,
compliance, and other planning tasks. Viewing individual switch health
helps isolate performance issues.

For network-wide monitoring, refer to [Monitor the
Network](/cumulus-netq/Cumulus_NetQ_UI_User_Guide/Monitor_the_Network/).

## <span>Monitor Switch Performance</span>

Viewing detail about a particular switch is essential when
troubleshooting performance issues. With NetQ you can view the overall
performance and drill down to view attributes of the switch, interface
performance and the events associated with a switch. This is
accomplished through the Switches card.

### <span>Switch Card Workflow Summary</span>

The small Switch card displays:

{{% imgOld 0 %}}

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Item</p></th>
<th><p>Description</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><span style="color: #353744;"> </span></p>
<p>{{% imgOld 1 %}}</p></td>
<td><p>Indicates data is for a single switch</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>title</p></td>
<td><p>Hostname of switch</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chart</p></td>
<td><p>Distribution of switch alarms during the designated time period</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Trend</p></td>
<td><p>Trend of alarm count, represented by an arrow:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>Pointing upward and green</strong>: alarm count is higher than the last two time periods, an increasing trend</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Pointing downward and bright pink</strong>: alarm count is lower than the last two time periods, a decreasing trend</p></li>
<li><p><strong>No arrow</strong>: alarm count is unchanged over the last two time periods, trend is steady</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Count</p></td>
<td><p>Current count of alarms on the switch</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Rating</p></td>
<td><p>Overall performance of the switch. Determined by the count of alarms relative to the average count of alarms during the designated time period:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>Low</strong>: Count of alarms is below the average count; a nominal count</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Med</strong>: Count of alarms is in range of the average count; some room for improvement</p></li>
<li><p><strong>High</strong>: Count of alarms is above the average count; user intervention recommended</p></li>
</ul>
<p>{{% imgOld 2 %}}</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

The medium Switch card displays:

{{% imgOld 3 %}}

{{% imgOld 4 %}}

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Item</p></th>
<th><p>Description</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><span style="color: #353744;"> </span></p>
<p>{{% imgOld 5 %}}</p></td>
<td><p>Indicates data is for a single switch</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>title</p></td>
<td><p>Hostname of switch</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Score</p></td>
<td><p>When selected, displays distribution and count of alarms generated by this switch during the designated time period</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Charts</p></td>
<td><p>When selected, displays distribution of overall health score for network services, interfaces, system and trace, as well as total alarm count, during the designated time period</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

The large Switch card contains two tabs:

The *Attributes* tab displays:

{{% imgOld 6 %}}

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Item</p></th>
<th><p>Description</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><span style="color: #353744;"> </span></p>
<p>{{% imgOld 7 %}}</p></td>
<td><p>Indicates data is for a single switch</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>title</p></td>
<td><p>&lt;Hostname&gt; | Attributes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Hostname</p></td>
<td><p>User-defined name for this switch</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Management IP</p></td>
<td><p>IPv4 or IPv6 address used for management of this switch</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Management MAC</p></td>
<td><p>MAC address used for management of this switch</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Platform Vendor</p></td>
<td><p>Manufacturer of this switch box. Cumulus Networks is identified as the vendor for a switch in the Cumulus in the Cloud (CITC) environment, as seen here.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Platform Model</p></td>
<td><p>Manufacturer model of this switch. VX is identified as the model for a switch in CITC environment, as seen here.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>ASIC Vendor</p></td>
<td><p>Manufacturer of the ASIC installed on the motherboard</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>ASIC Model</p></td>
<td><p>Manufacturer model of the ASIC installed on the motherboard</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>OS</p></td>
<td><p>Operating system running on the switch. CL indicates a Cumulus Linux license.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>OS Version</p></td>
<td><p>Version of the OS running on the switch</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>NetQ Agent Version</p></td>
<td><p>Version of the NetQ Agent running on the switch</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>License State</p></td>
<td><p>Indicates whether the license is valid (<em>ok</em>) or invalid/missing (<em>bad</em>)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Interfaces</p></td>
<td><p>Total number of interfaces on this switch, and the status of those, <em>up</em> or <em>down</em>.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

The Utilization tab displays:

{{% imgOld 8 %}}

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Item</p></th>
<th><p>Description</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><span style="color: #222222;"> </span></p>
<p>{{% imgOld 9 %}}</p></td>
<td><p>Indicates utilization data is for a single switch</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Title</p></td>
<td><p>&lt;Hostname&gt; | Utilization</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Performance</p></td>
<td><p>Displays distribution of CPU usage, memory usage, and switch up time during the designated time period</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Network</p></td>
<td><p>Displays distribution of the size of various network tables (IP, MAC, ACL, Routing, etc.) during the designated time period</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Filter</p></td>
<td><p>Click to open filter field. Begin typing to view only charts that match the filter.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

The full screen Switch card provides <span style="color: #000000;"> tabs
for all IP addresses, all MAC addresses, and all interfaces. </span>

{{% imgOld 10 %}}

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Item</p></th>
<th><p>Description</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Title</p></td>
<td><p>Switches</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>{{% imgOld 11 %}}</p></td>
<td><p>Closes full screen card and returns to workbench</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Default Time</p></td>
<td><p>Displayed data is current as of this moment</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Results</p></td>
<td><p>Number of results found for the selected tab</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>IP Addresses</p></td>
<td><p>Displays all known IP addresses for the switch. This tab provides the following additional data about each address:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>DB State</strong>: Session state of the DB; for internal use only</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Hostname</strong>: User-defined name of the switch</p></li>
<li><p><strong>IfName</strong>: Name of the interface</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Is IPv6</strong>: Indicates whether the address is an IPv6 address (true) or an IPv4 address (false)</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Mask</strong>: Mask for the address</p></li>
<li><p><strong>OpId</strong>: Process identifier; for internal use only</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Prefix</strong>: Prefix for the address</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Time</strong>: Date and time the table was generated</p></li>
<li><p><strong>VRF</strong>: Name of the virtual route forwarding (VRF) interface if deployed</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>MAC Addresses</p></td>
<td><p>Displays all known MAC addresses for the switch. This tab provides the following additional data about each address:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>DB State</strong>: Session state of the DB; for internal use only</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Egress Port</strong>: Importance of the event–critical, warning, info, or debug</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Hostname</strong>: User-defined name of the switch</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Last Changed</strong>: Data and time that the address was last updated or deleted</p></li>
<li><p><strong>OpId</strong>: Process identifier; for internal use only</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Origin</strong>: Indicates whether this switch owns this address (true) or if another switch owns this address (false)</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Remote</strong>: Indicates whether this address is reachable via a VXLAN on another switch (true) or is reachable locally on the switch (false)</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Time</strong>: Date and time the table was generated</p></li>
<li><p><strong>VLAN Id</strong>: Identifier of an associated VLAN if deployed</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>All Interfaces</p></td>
<td><p>Displays all known interfaces on the switch. This tab provides the following additional data about each interface:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>Details</strong>: Information about the interface, such as MTU, table number, members, protocols running, VLANs</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Hostname</strong>: Hostname of the given event</p></li>
<li><p><strong>IfName</strong>: Name of the interface</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Last Changed</strong>: Data and time that the interface was last enabled, updated, deleted, or changed state to down</p></li>
<li><p><strong>OpId</strong>: Process identifier; for internal use only</p></li>
<li><p><strong>State</strong>: Indicates if the interface is <em>up</em> or <em>down</em></p></li>
<li><p><strong>Time</strong>: Date and time the table was generated</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Type</strong>: Kind of interface; for example, VRF, switch port, loopback, ethernet</p></li>
<li><p><strong>VRF</strong>: Name of the associated virtual route forwarding (VRF) interface if deployed</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Export</p></td>
<td><p>Enables export of all or selected items in a CSV or JSON formatted file</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><span style="color: #353744;"> </span></p>
<p>{{% imgOld 12 %}}</p></td>
<td><p>Enables manipulation of table display; choose columns to display and reorder columns</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### <span>View the Overall Health of a Switch</span>

When you want to monitor the health of a particular switch, open the
small Switch card. It is unlikely that you would have this card open for
every switch in your network at the same time, but it is useful for
tracking selected switches that may have been problematic in the recent
past or that you have recently installed. The card shows you alarm
status and summary performance score and trend.

To view the summary:

1.  Click <span style="color: #353744;"> </span>
    
    {{% imgOld 13 %}}
    
    , and select Devices|Switch. A dialog box opens.
    
    {{% imgOld 14 %}}

2.  Begin typing the hostname of the device you are interested in.
    Select it from the suggested matches when it appears.
    
    {{% imgOld 15 %}}

3.  Select the size of the card, *L1*, to open the small size card.
    
    {{% imgOld 16 %}}

4.  Click **Add**, or **Cancel** to exit the process.
    
    {{% imgOld 17 %}}

In this example, we see that the leaf01 switch has had very few alarms
overall, but the number is trending upward, with a total count of 24
alarms currently.

### <span>View Health Performance Metrics</span>

When you are monitoring switches that have been problematic or are newly
installed, you might want to view more than a summary. Instead, seeing
key performance metrics can help you determine where issues might be
occurring or how new devices are functioning in the network.

To view the key metrics, open the medium Switch card. The card shows you
the overall switch health score and the scores for the key metrics that
comprise that score. The key metric scores are based on the number of
alarms attributed to the following activities on the switch:

  - network services, such as BGP, EVPN, CLAG, NTP, and so forth

  - scheduled traces

  - interface performance

  - platform performance

{{% imgOld 18 %}}

Also included on the card is the total alarm count for all of these
metrics. You can view the key performance metrics as numerical scores or
as line charts over time, by clicking **Charts** or **Score** at the top
of the card.

### <span>View Attributes of a Switch</span>

For a quick look at the key attributes of a particular switch, open the
large Switch card. Attributes are displayed as the default tab.

{{% imgOld 19 %}}

In this example, the items of interest might be the five interfaces that
are down and what version of OS and NetQ Agent the switch is running.

### <span>View Current Resource Utilization for a Switch</span>

The NetQ GUI enables you to easily view the performance of various
hardware components and the network tables. This enables you to
determine whether a switch is reaching its maximum load and compare its
performance with other switches.

To view the resource utilization on a particular switch:

1.  Open the large Switch card.

2.  Hover over the card and click
    
    {{% imgOld 20 %}}
    
    .

3.  The card is divided into two sections, one displaying
    hardware-related performance through a series of charts, and one
    displaying the performance of the network tables, also through a
    series of charts.
    
    {{% imgOld 21 %}}

4.  Look at the hardware performance charts. Are there any that are
    reaching critical usage levels? Scroll down to view all available
    charts.

5.  Open a new large Switch card for the same switch and change the time
    period. Is the performance about the same? Better? Worse? The
    results can guide your decisions about upgrade options or just times
    of day when the system is more heavily used.

6.  Optionally, filter for a particular chart, by clicking **Filter**
    above the charts. Begin typing the name of the chart you want to
    focus on; the charts that match the filter remain, while the others
    are hidden from view. Delete the filter to see all charts again.

7.  Look at the network table performance. Are there any tables that are
    reaching their maximum size? Does it stay at that level or spike at
    peak times? Scroll down to view all available charts.

8.  Compare this data with that in the second card you opened in step 5.
    Is the performance about the same? Better? Worse? The results can
    guide you toward any next steps if needed.

9.  Optionally, filter for a particular chart, by clicking **Filter**
    above the charts. Begin typing the name of the chart you want to
    focus on; the charts that match the filter remain, while the others
    are hidden from view. Delete the filter to see all charts again.

### <span>View All Addresses for a Switch</span>

It can be useful to view all of the configured addresses that this
switch is using. You can view all IP addresses or all MAC addresses
using the full screen Switch card.

To view all IP addresses:

1.  Open the full screen Switch card. The **IP addresses** tab is shown
    by default.
    
    {{% imgOld 22 %}}

2.  Review the addresses for any anomalies, to obtain prefix
    information, determine if it is an IPv4 or IPv6 address, and so
    forth.

3.  To return to the workbench, click <span style="color: #353744;">
    </span>
    
    {{% imgOld 23 %}}
    
    in the top right corner.

To view all MAC addresses:

1.  Open the full screen Switch card and click the **MAC Addresses**
    tab.
    
    {{% imgOld 24 %}}

2.  Review the addresses for any anomalies, to see the associated egress
    port, associated VLANs, and so forth.

3.  To return to the workbench, click <span style="color: #353744;">
    </span>
    
    {{% imgOld 25 %}}
    
    in the top right corner.

### <span>View All Interfaces on a Switch</span>

You can view all of the configured interfaces on a switch in one place
making it easier to see inconsistencies in the configuration, quickly
see when changes were made, and the operational status.

To view all interfaces:

1.  Open the full screen Switch card and click the **All Interfaces**
    tab.
    
    {{% imgOld 26 %}}

2.  Look for interfaces that are down, shown in the **State** column.

3.  Look for recent changes to the interfaces, shown in the **Last
    Changed** column.

4.  View details about each interface, shown in the **Details** column.

5.  Verify they are of the correct kind for their intended function,
    shown in the **Type** column.

6.  Verify the correct VRF interface is assigned to an interface, shown
    in the **VRF** column.

7.  To return to the workbench, click <span style="color: #353744;">
    </span>
    
    {{% imgOld 27 %}}
    
    in the top right corner.

## <span>Monitor Switch Component Inventory</span>

Knowing what components are included on all of your switches aids in
upgrade, compliance, and other planning tasks. Viewing this data is
accomplished through the Switch Inventory card.

### <span>Switch Inventory Card Workflow Summary</span>

The small Switch Inventory card displays:

{{% imgOld 28 %}}

| Item              | Description                                                                                  |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| {{% imgOld 29 %}} | Indicates data is for switch inventory                                                       |
| Count             | Total number of switches in the network inventory                                            |
| Chart             | Distribution of overall health status during the designated time period; fresh versus rotten |

The medium Switch Inventory card displays:

{{% imgOld 30 %}}

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Item</p></th>
<th><p>Description</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><span style="color: #353744;"> </span></p>
<p>{{% imgOld 31 %}}</p></td>
<td><p>Indicates data is for switch inventory</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Filter</p></td>
<td><p>View fresh switches (those you have heard from recently) or rotten switches (those you have not heard from recently) on this card</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chart</p></td>
<td><p>Distribution of switch components (disk size, OS, ASIC, NetQ Agents, CPU, Cumulus Linux licenses, platform, and memory size) during the designated time period. Hover over chart segment to view versions of each component.</p>
<p><strong>Note</strong>: You should only have one version of NetQ Agent running and it should match the NetQ Platform release number. If you have more than one, you likely need to upgrade the older agents.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Unique</p></td>
<td><p>Number of unique versions of the various switch components. For example, for OS, you might have CL 3.7.1 and CL 3.7.4 making the unique value two.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

The large Switch Inventory card contains four tabs.

The *Summary* tab displays:

{{% imgOld 32 %}}

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Item</p></th>
<th><p>Description</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>{{% imgOld 33 %}}</p></td>
<td><p>Indicates data is for switch inventory</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Filter</p></td>
<td><p>View fresh switches (those you have heard from recently) or rotten switches (those you have not heard from recently) on this card</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Charts</p></td>
<td><p>Distribution of switch components (disk size, OS, ASIC, NetQ Agents, CPU, Cumulus Linux licenses, platform, and memory size), divided into software and hardware, during the designated time period. Hover over chart segment to view versions of each component.</p>
<p><strong>Note</strong>: You should only have one version of NetQ Agent running and it should match the NetQ Platform release number. If you have more than one, you likely need to upgrade the older agents.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Unique</p></td>
<td><p>Number of unique versions of the various switch components. For example, for OS, you might have CL 3.7.1 and CL 3.7.4 making the unique value two.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

The *ASIC* tab displays:

{{% imgOld 34 %}}

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Item</p></th>
<th><p>Description</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><span style="color: #353744;"> </span></p>
<p>{{% imgOld 35 %}}</p></td>
<td><p>Indicates data is for ASIC information</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Filter</p></td>
<td><p>View fresh switches (those you have heard from recently) or rotten switches (those you have not heard from recently) on this card</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Vendor chart</p></td>
<td><p>Distribution of ASIC vendors. Hover over chart segment to view the number of switches with each version.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Model chart</p></td>
<td><p>Distribution of ASIC models. Hover over chart segment to view the number of switches with each version.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Show All</p></td>
<td><p>Opens full screen card displaying all components for all switches</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

The *Platform* tab displays:

{{% imgOld 36 %}}

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Item</p></th>
<th><p>Description</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><span style="color: #353744;"> </span></p>
<p>{{% imgOld 37 %}}</p></td>
<td><p>Indicates data is for platform information</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Filter</p></td>
<td><p>View fresh switches (those you have heard from recently) or rotten switches (those you have not heard from recently) on this card</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Vendor chart</p></td>
<td><p>Distribution of platform vendors. Hover over chart segment to view the number of switches with each vendor.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Platform chart</p></td>
<td><p>Distribution of platform models. Hover over chart segment to view the number of switches with each model.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>License State chart</p></td>
<td><p>Distribution of Cumulus Linux license status. Hover over chart segments to highlight the vendor and platforms that have that license status.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Show All</p></td>
<td><p>Opens full screen card displaying all components for all switches</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

The *Software* tab displays:

{{% imgOld 38 %}}

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Item</p></th>
<th><p>Description</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><span style="color: #353744;"> </span></p>
<p>{{% imgOld 39 %}}</p></td>
<td><p>Indicates data is for software information</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Filter</p></td>
<td><p>View fresh switches (those you have heard from recently) or rotten switches (those you have not heard from recently) on this card</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Operating System chart</p></td>
<td><p>Distribution of OS versions. Hover over chart segment to view the number of switches with each version.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Agent Version chart</p></td>
<td><p>Distribution of NetQ Agent versions. Hover over chart segment to view the number of switches with each version.</p>
<p><strong>Note</strong>: You should only have one version of NetQ Agent running and it should match the NetQ Platform release number. If you have more than one, you likely need to upgrade the older agents.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Show All</p></td>
<td><p>Opens full screen card displaying all components for all switches</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

The full screen Switch Inventory card provides
<span style="color: #000000;"> tabs for all components, ASIC, platform,
CPU, memory, disk, and OS components. </span>

<span style="color: #000000;"> </span>

{{% imgOld 40 %}}

<span style="color: #000000;"> There are a multitude of ways to view and
analyze the available data within this workflow. A few examples are
provided here. </span>

### <span>View a Summary of Communication Status for All Switches </span>

A communication status summary for all of your switches across the
network is available from the small Switch Inventory card.

{{% imgOld 41 %}}

In this example, we see all 13 switches have been heard from recently
(they are fresh).

### <span>View the Number of Types of Any Component Deployed</span>

For each of the components monitored on a switch, NetQ displays the
variety of those component by way of a count. For example, if you have
three operating systems running on your switches, say Cumulus Linux,
Ubuntu and RHEL, NetQ indicates a total unique count of three OSs. If
you only use Cumulus Linux, then the count shows as one.

To view this count for all of the components on the switch:

1.  Open the medium Switch Inventory card.
    
    {{% imgOld 42 %}}

2.  Note the number in the **Unique** column for each component.  
    In the above example, there are four different disk sizes deployed,
    four different OSs running, four different ASIC vendors and models
    deployed, and so forth.

3.  Scroll down to see additional components.

By default, the data is shown for switches with a fresh communication
status. You can choose to look at the data for switches in the rotten
state instead. For example, if you wanted to see if there was any
correlation to a version of OS to the switch having a rotten status, you
could select **Rotten Switches** from the dropdown at the top of the
card and see if they all use the same OS (count would be 1). It may not
be the cause of the lack of communication, but you get the idea.

### <span>View the Distribution of Any Component Deployed</span>

NetQ monitors a number of switch components. For each component you can
view the distribution of versions or models or vendors deployed across
your network for that component.

To view the distribution:

1.  Open the medium or large Switch Inventory card. Each component has a
    chart showing the distribution.  
    
    {{% imgOld 43 %}}
    
    OR
    
    {{% imgOld 44 %}}

2.  Hover over a segment of the chart to view the name, version, model
    or vendor and the number of switches that have been deployed. You
    can also see the percentage of all switches this total represents.
    On the large Switch Inventory card, hovering also highlights the
    related components for the selected component. This is shown in blue
    here.
    
    {{% imgOld 45 %}}

3.  Point to additional segments on that component or other components
    to view their detail.

4.  Scroll down to view additional components.

### <span>View the Number of Switches with Invalid or Missing Licenses</span>

<span style="color: #000000;"> It is important to know when you have
switches that have invalid or missing Cumulus Linux licenses, as not all
of the features are operational without a valid license. Simply open the
medium or large Switch Inventory card, and hover over the License chart
to see the count. </span>

<span style="color: #000000;"> </span>

{{% imgOld 46 %}}

<span style="color: #000000;"> To view which vendors and platforms have
bad or missing licenses, open the large Switch Inventory card,
<span style="color: #000000;"> and click </span> </span>

{{% imgOld 47 %}}

<span style="color: #000000;"> to open the </span> **Platform Details**
<span style="color: #000000;"> tab. Hover over the License State bar
chart to highlight the vendor and platforms with the various states.
</span>

<span style="color: #000000;"> To view *which* switches have invalid or
missing licenses, either: </span>

  - <span style="color: #000000;"> hover over the large Switch Inventory
    card and click </span>
    
    {{% imgOld 48 %}}
    
    to open the **Platform Details** tab. Above the Licenses State or
    the Vendor chart, click **Show All**.

  - <span style="color: #000000;"> open the full screen Switch Inventory
    card </span> <span style="color: #000000;"> . </span>

<span style="color: #000000;"> Then sort the **All Switches** tab data
table by the **License State** column to locate the switches with bad or
missing licenses. </span>

{{% imgOld 49 %}}

### <span>View the Most Commonly Deployed ASIC</span>

<span style="color: #000000;"> It can be useful to know the quantity and
ratio of many components deployed in your network to determine the scope
of upgrade tasks, balance vendor reliance, or for detailed
troubleshooting. You can view the most commonly deployed components in
generally the same way. Some components have additional details
contained in large card tabs. </span>

<span style="color: #000000;"> To view the most commonly deployed ASIC,
for example: </span>

1.  <span style="color: #000000;"> Open the medium or large Switch
    Inventory card. </span>

2.  <span style="color: #000000;"> Hover over the *largest* segment in
    the ASIC chart. The tooltip that appears shows you the number of
    switches with the given ASIC and the percentage of your entire
    switch population with this ASIC.  
    </span>
    
    {{% imgOld 50 %}}
    
      
    Click on any other component in a similar fashion to see the most
    common type of that component.

3.  <span style="color: #000000;"> <span style="color: #000000;"> If you
    opened the medium <span style="color: #000000;"> Switch Inventory
    </span> card, s </span> witch to the large card. </span>

4.  <span style="color: #000000;"> Hover over the card, and click
    <span style="color: #353744;"> </span></span>
    
    {{% imgOld 51 %}}
    
    to open the **ASIC Details** tab. Here you can more easily view the
    various vendors and platforms based on the ASIC deployed.

5.  <span style="color: #000000;"> <span style="color: #353744;">
    *Hover* over the **Vendor** pie chart to highlight which platforms
    are supported by the vendor; and vice versa, hover over the
    **Platform** pie chart to see which vendor supports that platform.
    Moving your cursor off of the carts removes the highlight.  
    </span></span>
    
    {{% imgOld 52 %}}
    
      

6.  <span style="color: #000000;"> <span style="color: #353744;">
    *Click* on a segment of the **Vendor** pie chart to drill down and
    see only that Vendor and its supported models. A
    <span style="color: #353744;"> filter tag is placed at the top of
    the charts </span> .  
    </span></span>
    
    {{% imgOld 53 %}}
    
      

7.  <span style="color: #000000;"> <span style="color: #353744;"> To
    return to the complete view of vendors and platforms, click
    </span></span>
    
    {{% imgOld 54 %}}
    
    on the filter tag.

### <span>View the Number of Switches with a Particular NetQ Agent</span>

<span style="color: #000000;"> It is recommended that when you upgrade
NetQ that you also upgrade the NetQ Agents. You can determine if you
have covered all of your agents using the medium or large Switch
Inventory card. To view the NetQ Agent distribution by version: </span>

1.  <span style="color: #000000;"> Open the medium Switch Inventory
    card. </span>

2.  <span style="color: #000000;"> View the number in the Unique column
    next to Agent.  
    </span>
    
    {{% imgOld 55 %}}
    
      

3.  <span style="color: #000000;"> If the number is greater than one,
    you have multiple NetQ Agent versions deployed. </span>

4.  <span style="color: #000000;"> If you have multiple versions, hover
    over the Agent chart to view the count of switches using each
    version. </span>

5.  <span style="color: #000000;"> For more detail, switch to the large
    Switch Inventory card. </span>

6.  <span style="color: #000000;"> Hover over the card and click </span>
    
    {{% imgOld 56 %}}
    
    to open the **Software Details** tab.  
    
    {{% imgOld 57 %}}
    
      

7.  <span style="color: #000000;"> Hover over the chart on the right to
    view the number of switches using the various versions of the NetQ
    Agent. </span>

8.  <span style="color: #000000;"> Hover over the Operating System chart
    to see which NetQ Agent versions are being run on each OS.  
    </span>
    
    {{% imgOld 58 %}}
    
      

9.  <span style="color: #000000;"> Click either chart to focus on a
    particular OS or agent version. </span>

10. <span style="color: #000000;"> To return to the full view, click
    </span>
    
    {{% imgOld 59 %}}
    
    in the filter tag.

11. <span style="color: #000000;"> Filter the data on the card by
    switches that are having trouble communicating, by selecting *Rotten
    Switches* from the dropdown above the charts. </span>

### <span>View a List of All Data for a Specific Component</span>

When the small, medium and large Switch Inventory cards do not provide
either enough information or are not organized in a fashion that
provides the information you need, open the full screen Switch Inventory
card. Select the component tab of interest and filter and sort as
desired. Export the data to a third-party tool, by clicking **Export**.

{{% imgOld 60 %}}
