---
title: WJH Event Messages Reference
author: NVIDIA
weight: 813
toc: 4
---
This topic lists all of the supported WJH metrics and provides a brief description of each.

For instructions on how to configure and monitor What Just Happened events, refer to {{<link title="Configure and Monitor What Just Happened" text="Configure and Monitor What Just Happened">}}.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 20%" />
<col style="width: 80%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Item</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="even">
<td>L1 Drops tab</td>
<td>Displays the reason why a port is in the down state. By default, the listing is sorted by <strong>Last Timestamp</strong>. The tab provides the following additional data about each drop event:
<ul>
<li><strong>Hostname</strong>: Name of the Mellanox server.</li>
<li><strong>Port Down Reason</strong>: Reason why the port is down.
<ul><li>Port admin down: Port has been purposely set down by user.</li>
<li>Auto-negotiation failure: Negotiation of port speed with peer has failed.</li>
<li>Logical mismatch with peer link: Logical mismatch with peer link.</li>
<li>Link training failure: Link is not able to go operational up due to link training failure.</li>
<li>Peer is sending remote faults: Peer node is not operating correctly.</li>
<li>Bad signal integrity: Integrity of the signal on port is not sufficient for good communication.</li>
<li>Cable/transceiver is not supported: The attached cable or transceiver is not supported by this port.</li>
<li>Cable/transceiver is unplugged: A cable or transceiver is missing or not fully plugged into the port.</li>
<li>Calibration failure: Calibration failure.</li>
<li>Port state changes counter: Cumulative number of state changes.</li>
<li>Symbol error counter: Cumulative number of symbol errors.</li>
<li>CRC error counter: Cumulative number of CRC errors.</li>
</ul></li>
<li><strong>Corrective Action</strong>: Provides recommend action(s) to take to resolve the port down state.</li>
<li><strong>First Timestamp</strong>: Date and time this port was marked as down for the first time.</li>
<li><strong>Ingress Port</strong>: Port accepting incoming traffic.</li>
<li><strong>CRC Error Count</strong>: Number of CRC errors generated by this port.</li>
<li><strong>Symbol Error Count</strong>: Number of Symbol errors generated by this port.</li>
<li><strong>State Change Count</strong>: Number of state changes that have  occurred on this port.</li>
<li><strong>OPID</strong>: Operation identifier; used for internal purposes.</li>
<li><strong>Is Port Up</strong>: Indicates whether the port is in an Up (true) or Down (false) state.</li>
</ul></td>
<tr class="even">
<td>L2 Drops tab</td>
<td>Displays the reason for a link to be down. By default, the listing is sorted by <strong>Last Timestamp</strong>. The tab provides the following additional data about each drop event:
<ul>
<li><strong>Hostname</strong>: Name of the Mellanox server.</li>
<li><strong>Source Port</strong>: Port ID where the link originates.</li>
<li><strong>Source IP</strong>: Port IP address where the link originates.</li>
<li><strong>Source MAC</strong>: Port MAC address where the link originates.</li>
<li><strong>Destination Port</strong>: Port ID where the link terminates.</li>
<li><strong>Destination IP</strong>: Port IP address where the link terminates.</li>
<li><strong>Destination MAC</strong>: Port MAC address where the link terminates.</li>
<li><strong>Reason</strong>: Reason why the link is down.
<ul><li>MLAG port isolation: Not supported for port isolation implemented with system ACL.</li>
<li>Destination MAC is reserved (DMAC=01-80-C2-00-00-0x): The address cannot be used by this link.</li>
<li>VLAN tagging mismatch: VLAN tags on the source and destination do not match.</li>
<li>Ingress VLAN filtering: Frames whose port is not a member of the VLAN are discarded.</li>
<li>Ingress spanning tree filter: Port is in Spanning Tree blocking state.</li>
<li>Unicast MAC table action discard: Currently not supported.</li>
<li>Multicast egress port list is empty: No ports are defined for multicast egress.</li>
<li>Port loopback filter: Port is operating in loopback mode; packets are being sent to itself (source MAC address is the same as the destination MAC address.</li>
<li>Source MAC is multicast: Packets have multicast source MAC address.</li>
<li>Source MAC equals destination MAC: Source MAC address is the same as the destination MAC address.</li>
</ul></li>
<li><strong>First Timestamp</strong>: Date and time this link was marked as down for the first time.</li>
<li><strong>Aggregate Count </strong>: Total number of dropped packets.</li>
<li><strong>Protocol</strong>: ID of the communication protocol running on this link.</li>
<li><strong>Ingress Port</strong>: Port accepting incoming traffic.</li>
<li><strong>OPID</strong>: Operation identifier; used for internal purposes.</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Router Drops tab</td>
<td>Displays the reason why the server is unable to route a packet. By default, the listing is sorted by <strong>Last Timestamp</strong>. The tab provides the following additional data about each drop event:
<ul>
<li><strong>Hostname</strong>: Name of the Mellanox server.</li>
<li><strong>Reason</strong>: Reason why the server is unable to route a packet.
<ul><li>Non-routable packet: Packet has no route in routing table.</li>
<li>Blackhole route: Packet received with action equal to discard.</li>
<li>Unresolved next-hop: The next hop in the route is unknown.</li>
<li>Blackhole ARP/neighbor: Packet received with blackhole adjacency.</li>
<li>IPv6 destination in multicast scope FFx0:/16: Packet received with multicast destination address in FFx0:/16 address range.</li>
<li>IPv6 destination in multicast scope FFx1:/16: Packet received with multicast destination address in FFx1:/16 address range.</li>
<li>Non-IP packet: Cannot read packet header because it is not an IP packet.</li>
<li>Unicast destination IP but non-unicast destination MAC: Cannot read packet with IP unicast address when destination MAC address is not unicast (FF:FF:FF:FF:FF:FF).</li>
<li>Destination IP is loopback address: Cannot read packet as destination IP address is a loopback address (dip=>127.0.0.0/8).</li>
<li>Source IP is multicast: Cannot read packet as source IP address is a multicast address (ipv4 SIP => 224.0.0.0/4).</li>
<li>Source IP is in class E: Cannot read packet as source IP address is a Class E address.</li>
<li>Source IP is loopback address: Cannot read packet as source IP address is a loopback address ( ipv4 => 127.0.0.0/8 for ipv6 => ::1/128).</li>
<li>Source IP is unspecified: Cannot read packet as source IP address is unspecified (ipv4 = 0.0.0.0/32; for ipv6 = ::0).</li>
<li>Checksum or IP ver or IPv4 IHL too short: Cannot read packet due to header checksum error, IP version mismatch, or IPv4 header length is too short.</li>
<li>Multicast MAC mismatch:  For IPv4, destination MAC address is not equal to {0x01-00-5E-0 (25 bits), DIP[22:0]} and DIP is multicast. For IPv6, destination MAC address is not equal to {0x3333, DIP[31:0]} and DIP is multicast.</li>
<li>Source IP equals destination IP: Packet has a source IP address equal to the destination IP address.</li>
<li>IPv4 source IP is limited broadcast: Packet has broadcast source IP address.</li>
<li>IPv4 destination IP is local network (destination = 0.0.0.0/8): Packet has IPv4 destination address that is a local network (destination=0.0.0.0/8).</li>
<li>IPv4 destination IP is link local: Packet has IPv4 destination address that is a local link.</li>
<li>Ingress router interface is disabled: Packet destined to a different subnet cannot be routed because ingress router interface is disabled.</li>
<li>Egress router interface is disabled: Packet destined to a different subnet cannot be routed because egress router interface is disabled.</li>
<li>IPv4 routing table (LPM) unicast miss: No route available in routing table for packet.</li>
<li>IPv6 routing table (LPM) unicast miss: No route available in routing table for packet.</li>
<li>Router interface loopback: Packet has destination IP address that is local. For example, SIP = 1.1.1.1, DIP = 1.1.1.128.</li>
<li>Packet size is larger than MTU: Packet has larger MTU configured than the VLAN.</li>
<li>TTL value is too small: Packet has TTL value of 1.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul></td>
<tr class="even">
<td>Tunnel Drops tab</td>
<td>Displays the reason for a tunnel to be down. By default, the listing is sorted by <strong>Last Timestamp</strong>. The tab provides the following additional data about each drop event:
<ul>
<li><strong>Hostname</strong>: Name of the Mellanox server.</li>
<li><strong>Reason</strong>: Reason why the tunnel is down.
<ul><li>Overlay switch - source MAC is multicast:  Overlay packet's source MAC address is multicast.</li>
<li>Overlay switch - source MAC equals destination MAC: Overlay packet's source MAC address is the same as the destination MAC address.</li>
<li>Decapsulation error: Decapsulation produced incorrect format of packet. For example, encapsulation of packet with many VLANs or IP options on the underlay can cause decapsulation to result in a short packet.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul></td>
<tr class="even">
<td>Buffer Drops tab</td>
<td>Displays the reason for the server buffer to be drop packets. By default, the listing is sorted by <strong>Last Timestamp</strong>. The tab provides the following additional data about each drop event:
<ul>
<li><strong>Hostname</strong>: Name of the Mellanox server.</li>
<li><strong>Reason</strong>: Reason why the buffer dropped packet.
<ul><li>Tail drop: Tail drop is enabled, and buffer queue is filled to maximum capacity.</li>
<li>WRED: Weighted Random Early Detection is enabled, and buffer queue is filled to maximum capacity or the RED engine dropped the packet as of random congestion prevention.</li>
<li>Port TC Congestion Threshold Crossed: Percentage of the occupancy buffer exceeded or dropped below the specified high or low threshold</li>
<li>Packet Latency Threshold Crossed: Time a packet spent within the switch exceeded or dropped below the specified high or low threshold</li>
</ul></li>
</ul></td>
<tr class="even">
<td>ACL Drops tab</td>
<td>Displays the reason for an ACL to drop packets. By default, the listing is sorted by <strong>Last Timestamp</strong>. The tab provides the following additional data about each drop event:
<ul>
<li><strong>Hostname</strong>: Name of the Mellanox server.</li>
<li><strong>Reason</strong>: Reason why ACL dropped packets.
<ul><li>Ingress port ACL:  ACL action set to deny on the physical ingress port or bond.</li>
<li>Ingress router ACL: ACL action set to deny on the ingress switch virtual interfaces (SVIs).</li>
<li>Egress port ACL:  ACL action set to deny on the physical egress port or bond.</li>
<li>Egress router ACL: ACL action set to deny on the egress SVIs.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul></td>
<tr class="even">
<td>Table Actions</td>
<td>Select, export, or filter the list. Refer to {{<link url="Access-Data-with-Cards/#table-settings" text="Table Settings">}}.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
