content/cumulus-netq-48/Installation-Management/Install-NetQ/Install-NetQ-System.md, before:

---
title: Install the NetQ System
author: NVIDIA
weight: 200
toc: 3
---
<!--
- - -

You can install NetQ either on your premises or as a remote, SaaS solution. If you are unsure which option is best for your network, refer to the {{<link title="Before You Install" text="Before You Install">}}.

| Deployment Type | Server Arrangement | Hypervisor | Requirements & Installation |
| --- | --- | --- | :---: |
| On-premises | Single server | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for a Single On-premises Server" text="Start Install" >}} |
| On-premises | Single server | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for a Single On-premises Server" text="Start Install" >}} |
| On-premises | Server cluster | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for an On-premises Server Cluster" text="Start Install" >}} |
| On-premises | Server cluster | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for an On-premises Server Cluster" text="Start Install" >}} |
| OPTA | Single server | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for a Single Cloud Server" text="Start Install" >}} |
| OPTA | Single server | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for a Single Cloud Server" text="Start Install" >}} |
| OPTA | Server cluster | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for a Cloud Server Cluster" text="Start Install" >}} |
| OPTA | Server cluster | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for a Cloud Server Cluster" text="Start Install" >}} |

- - -
-->
You can install NetQ either on your premises or as a remote, SaaS solution. If you are unsure which option is best for your network, refer to the {{<link title="Before You Install" text="Before You Install">}}.

## On-premises

| Deployment Type | Server Arrangement | Hypervisor | Requirements & Installation |
| --- | --- | --- | :---: |
| On-premises | Single server | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for a Single On-premises Server" text="Start Install" >}} |
| On-premises | Single server | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for a Single On-premises Server" text="Start Install" >}} |
| On-premises | Server cluster | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for an On-premises Server Cluster" text="Start Install" >}} |
| On-premises | Server cluster | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for an On-premises Server Cluster" text="Start Install" >}} |

## Telemetry Aggregator (OPTA for NetQ Cloud)

| Deployment Type | Server Arrangement | Hypervisor | Requirements & Installation |
| --- | --- | --- | :---: |
| OPTA | Single server | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for a Single Cloud Server" text="Start Install" >}} |
| OPTA | Single server | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for a Single Cloud Server" text="Start Install" >}} |
| OPTA | Server cluster | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for a Cloud Server Cluster" text="Start Install" >}} |
| OPTA | Server cluster | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for a Cloud Server Cluster" text="Start Install" >}} |

Commit message:

NetQ 4.8 finish first pass at HA cluster install

content/cumulus-netq-48/Installation-Management/Install-NetQ/Install-NetQ-System.md, after:

---
title: Install the NetQ System
author: NVIDIA
weight: 200
toc: 3
---
<!--
- - -

You can install NetQ either on your premises or as a remote, SaaS solution. If you are unsure which option is best for your network, refer to the {{<link title="Before You Install" text="Before You Install">}}.

| Deployment Type | Server Arrangement | Hypervisor | Requirements & Installation |
| --- | --- | --- | :---: |
| On-premises | Single server | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for a Single On-premises Server" text="Start Install" >}} |
| On-premises | Single server | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for a Single On-premises Server" text="Start Install" >}} |
| On-premises | Server cluster | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for an On-premises Server Cluster" text="Start Install" >}} |
| On-premises | Server cluster | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for an On-premises Server Cluster" text="Start Install" >}} |
| OPTA | Single server | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for a Single Cloud Server" text="Start Install" >}} |
| OPTA | Single server | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for a Single Cloud Server" text="Start Install" >}} |
| OPTA | Server cluster | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for a Cloud Server Cluster" text="Start Install" >}} |
| OPTA | Server cluster | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for a Cloud Server Cluster" text="Start Install" >}} |

- - -
-->
You can install NetQ either on your premises or as a remote, SaaS solution. If you are unsure which option is best for your network, refer to the {{<link title="Before You Install" text="Before You Install">}}.

## On-premises

| Deployment Type | Server Arrangement | Hypervisor | Requirements & Installation |
| --- | --- | --- | :---: |
| On-premises | Single server | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for a Single On-premises Server" text="Start Install" >}} |
| On-premises | Single server | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for a Single On-premises Server" text="Start Install" >}} |
| On-premises | Server cluster | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for an On-premises Server Cluster" text="Start Install" >}} |
| On-premises | Server cluster | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for an On-premises Server Cluster" text="Start Install" >}} |
| On-premises | HA Server cluster | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for an On-premises HA Server Cluster" text="Start Install" >}} |
| On-premises | HA Server cluster | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for an On-premises HA Server Cluster" text="Start Install" >}} |

## Telemetry Aggregator (OPTA for NetQ Cloud)

| Deployment Type | Server Arrangement | Hypervisor | Requirements & Installation |
| --- | --- | --- | :---: |
| OPTA | Single server | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for a Single Cloud Server" text="Start Install" >}} |
| OPTA | Single server | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for a Single Cloud Server" text="Start Install" >}} |
| OPTA | Server cluster | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for a Cloud Server Cluster" text="Start Install" >}} |
| OPTA | Server cluster | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for a Cloud Server Cluster" text="Start Install" >}} |
