content/nvue-reference/Set-and-Unset-Commands/LLDP.md, before:

---
title: LLDP
author: Cumulus Networks
weight: 590

type: nojsscroll
---
<style>
h { color: RGB(118,185,0)}
</style>
{{%notice note%}}
The `nv unset` commands remove the configuration you set with the equivalent `nv set` commands. This guide only describes an `nv unset` command if it differs from the `nv set` command.
{{%/notice%}}

## <h>nv set interface \<interface-id\> lldp</h>

Provides commands to configure <span class="a-tooltip">[LLDP](## "Link Layer Discovery Protocol")</span> on an interface.

<HR STYLE="BORDER: DASHED RGB(118,185,0) 0.5PX;BACKGROUND-COLOR: RGB(118,185,0);HEIGHT: 4.0PX;"/>

## <h>nv set interface \<interface-id\> lldp dcbx-ets-config-tlv</h>

Configures ETS TLV transmission on the interface. The default setting is `off`.

### Command Syntax

| Syntax |  Description   |
| ---------  | -------------- |
|`<interface-id>` |  The interface you want to configure. |

### Version History

Introduced in Cumulus Linux 5.1.0

### Example

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set interface swp1 lldp dcbx-ets-config-tlv on
```

<HR STYLE="BORDER: DASHED RGB(118,185,0) 0.5PX;BACKGROUND-COLOR: RGB(118,185,0);HEIGHT: 4.0PX;"/>

## <h>nv set interface \<interface-id\> lldp dcbx-ets-recomm-tlv</h>

Configures ETS Recommendation TLV transmission on the interface.

### Command Syntax

| Syntax |  Description   |
| ---------  | -------------- |
|`<interface-id>` |  The interface you want to configure. |

### Version History

Introduced in Cumulus Linux 5.1.0

### Example

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set interface swp1 lldp dcbx-ets-recomm-tlv on
```

<HR STYLE="BORDER: DASHED RGB(118,185,0) 0.5PX;BACKGROUND-COLOR: RGB(118,185,0);HEIGHT: 4.0PX;"/>

## <h>nv set interface \<interface-id\> lldp dcbx-pfc-tlv</h>

Configures PFC TLV transmission on the interface. The default setting is `off`.

### Command Syntax

| Syntax |  Description   |
| ---------  | -------------- |
|`<interface-id>` |  The interface you want to configure. |

### Version History

Introduced in Cumulus Linux 5.1.0

### Example

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set interface swp1 lldp dcbx-pfc-tlv on
```

<HR STYLE="BORDER: DASHED RGB(118,185,0) 0.5PX;BACKGROUND-COLOR: RGB(118,185,0);HEIGHT: 4.0PX;"/>

## <h>nv set service lldp</h>

Provides commands to configure LLDP globally on the switch.

<HR STYLE="BORDER: DASHED RGB(118,185,0) 0.5PX;BACKGROUND-COLOR: RGB(118,185,0);HEIGHT: 4.0PX;"/>

## <h>nv set service lldp dot1-tlv</h>

Turns dot1 TLV advertisements on or off. The default setting is `off`.

### Version History

Introduced in Cumulus Linux 5.1.0

### Example

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set service lldp dot1-tlv on
```

<HR STYLE="BORDER: DASHED RGB(118,185,0) 0.5PX;BACKGROUND-COLOR: RGB(118,185,0);HEIGHT: 4.0PX;"/>

## <h>nv set service lldp mode \<mode\></h>

Configures the `lldpd` service to send only CDP frames or only LLDP frames. By default, the `lldpd` service sends LLDP frames unless it detects a CDP peer, then it sends CDP frames. You can set the following options:
- `force-send-cdpv1` configures the `lldpd` service to send only CDPv1 frames.
- `force-send-cdpv2` configures the `lldpd` service to send only CDPv2 frames.
- `force-send-lldp` configures the `lldpd` service to send only LLDP frames.

### Version History

Introduced in Cumulus Linux 5.4.0

### Example

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set service lldp mode force-send-cdpv1
```

<HR STYLE="BORDER: DASHED RGB(118,185,0) 0.5PX;BACKGROUND-COLOR: RGB(118,185,0);HEIGHT: 4.0PX;"/>

## <h>nv set service lldp tx-hold-multiplier</h>

Configures the amount of time to hold LLDP information before discarding it. The hold time interval is a multiple of the tx-interval.

### Version History

Introduced in Cumulus Linux 5.0.0

### Example

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set service lldp tx-hold-multiplier 3
```

<HR STYLE="BORDER: DASHED RGB(118,185,0) 0.5PX;BACKGROUND-COLOR: RGB(118,185,0);HEIGHT: 4.0PX;"/>

## <h>nv set service lldp tx-interval</h>

Configures the frequency of LLDP updates. You can specify a value between 10 and 300.

### Version History

Introduced in Cumulus Linux 5.0.0

### Example

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set service lldp tx-interval 100
```

Commit message:

add LLDP-MED inventory-TLV command

content/nvue-reference/Set-and-Unset-Commands/LLDP.md, after:

---
title: LLDP
author: Cumulus Networks
weight: 590

type: nojsscroll
---
<style>
h { color: RGB(118,185,0)}
</style>
{{%notice note%}}
The `nv unset` commands remove the configuration you set with the equivalent `nv set` commands. This guide only describes an `nv unset` command if it differs from the `nv set` command.
{{%/notice%}}

## <h>nv set interface \<interface-id\> lldp</h>

Provides commands to configure <span class="a-tooltip">[LLDP](## "Link Layer Discovery Protocol")</span> on an interface.

<HR STYLE="BORDER: DASHED RGB(118,185,0) 0.5PX;BACKGROUND-COLOR: RGB(118,185,0);HEIGHT: 4.0PX;"/>

## <h>nv set interface \<interface-id\> lldp dcbx-ets-config-tlv</h>

Configures ETS TLV transmission on the interface. The default setting is `off`.

### Command Syntax

| Syntax |  Description   |
| ---------  | -------------- |
|`<interface-id>` |  The interface you want to configure. |

### Version History

Introduced in Cumulus Linux 5.1.0

### Example

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set interface swp1 lldp dcbx-ets-config-tlv on
```

<HR STYLE="BORDER: DASHED RGB(118,185,0) 0.5PX;BACKGROUND-COLOR: RGB(118,185,0);HEIGHT: 4.0PX;"/>

## <h>nv set interface \<interface-id\> lldp dcbx-ets-recomm-tlv</h>

Configures ETS Recommendation TLV transmission on the interface.

### Command Syntax

| Syntax |  Description   |
| ---------  | -------------- |
|`<interface-id>` |  The interface you want to configure. |

### Version History

Introduced in Cumulus Linux 5.1.0

### Example

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set interface swp1 lldp dcbx-ets-recomm-tlv on
```

<HR STYLE="BORDER: DASHED RGB(118,185,0) 0.5PX;BACKGROUND-COLOR: RGB(118,185,0);HEIGHT: 4.0PX;"/>

## <h>nv set interface \<interface-id\> lldp dcbx-pfc-tlv</h>

Configures PFC TLV transmission on the interface. The default setting is `off`.

### Command Syntax

| Syntax |  Description   |
| ---------  | -------------- |
|`<interface-id>` |  The interface you want to configure. |

### Version History

Introduced in Cumulus Linux 5.1.0

### Example

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set interface swp1 lldp dcbx-pfc-tlv on
```

<HR STYLE="BORDER: DASHED RGB(118,185,0) 0.5PX;BACKGROUND-COLOR: RGB(118,185,0);HEIGHT: 4.0PX;"/>

## <h>nv set service lldp</h>

Provides commands to configure LLDP globally on the switch.

<HR STYLE="BORDER: DASHED RGB(118,185,0) 0.5PX;BACKGROUND-COLOR: RGB(118,185,0);HEIGHT: 4.0PX;"/>

## <h>nv set service lldp dot1-tlv</h>

Turns dot1 TLV advertisements on or off. The default setting is `off`.

### Version History

Introduced in Cumulus Linux 5.1.0

### Example

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set service lldp dot1-tlv on
```

<HR STYLE="BORDER: DASHED RGB(118,185,0) 0.5PX;BACKGROUND-COLOR: RGB(118,185,0);HEIGHT: 4.0PX;"/>

## <h>nv set service lldp lldp-med-inventory-tlv></h>

Configures the `lldpd` service to send <span class="a-tooltip">[LLDP-MED](## "LLDP for Media Endpoint Devices")</span> Inventory TLV advertisements. By default, Cumulus Linux transmits LLDP-MED Inventory TLV advertisements on enabled ports.

LLDP-MED is an extension to LLDP that operates between endpoint devices, such as IP phones and switches. Inventory management TLV enables an endpoint to transmit detailed inventory information about itself to the switch, such as the hardware revision, firmware version, software version, serial number, manufacturer name, and model name.

You can disable LLDP-MED inventory TLV transmission if you want LLDP to receive LLDP-MED inventory TLVs (and publish them using SNMP, if enabled) but not send them.

### Version History

Introduced in Cumulus Linux 5.7.0

### Example

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set service lldp lldp-med-inventory-tlv off
```

<HR STYLE="BORDER: DASHED RGB(118,185,0) 0.5PX;BACKGROUND-COLOR: RGB(118,185,0);HEIGHT: 4.0PX;"/>

## <h>nv set service lldp mode \<mode\></h>

Configures the `lldpd` service to send only CDP frames or only LLDP frames. By default, the `lldpd` service sends LLDP frames unless it detects a CDP peer, then it sends CDP frames. You can set the following options:
- `force-send-cdpv1` configures the `lldpd` service to send only CDPv1 frames.
- `force-send-cdpv2` configures the `lldpd` service to send only CDPv2 frames.
- `force-send-lldp` configures the `lldpd` service to send only LLDP frames.

### Version History

Introduced in Cumulus Linux 5.4.0

### Example

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set service lldp mode force-send-cdpv1
```

<HR STYLE="BORDER: DASHED RGB(118,185,0) 0.5PX;BACKGROUND-COLOR: RGB(118,185,0);HEIGHT: 4.0PX;"/>

## <h>nv set service lldp tx-hold-multiplier</h>

Configures the amount of time to hold LLDP information before discarding it. The hold time interval is a multiple of the tx-interval.

### Version History

Introduced in Cumulus Linux 5.0.0

### Example

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set service lldp tx-hold-multiplier 3
```

<HR STYLE="BORDER: DASHED RGB(118,185,0) 0.5PX;BACKGROUND-COLOR: RGB(118,185,0);HEIGHT: 4.0PX;"/>

## <h>nv set service lldp tx-interval</h>

Configures the frequency of LLDP updates. You can specify a value between 10 and 300.

### Version History

Introduced in Cumulus Linux 5.0.0

### Example

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set service lldp tx-interval 100
```
