Basic Proprietary Commercial License
END-USER LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR ACME SOFTWARE
============================================

IMPORTANT READ CAREFULLY: This ACME End-User License Agreement ("EULA") is a
legal agreement between you (either an individual or a single entity) and ACME
Corporation for the ACME software product identified above, which includes
computer software and may include associated media, printed materials, and
"online" or electronic documentation ("SOFTWARE PRODUCT"). The SOFTWARE PRODUCT
also includes any updates and supplements to the original SOFTWARE PRODUCT
provided to you by ACME. Any software provided along with the SOFTWARE PRODUCT
that is associated with a separate end-user license agreement is licensed to you
under the terms of that license agreement. By installing, copying, downloading,
accessing, or otherwise using the SOFTWARE PRODUCT, you agree to be bound by the
terms of this EULA. If you do not agree to the terms of this EULA, do not install
or use the SOFTWARE PRODUCT; you may, however, return it to your place of
purchase for a full refund.


SOFTWARE PRODUCT LICENSE
------------------------

The SOFTWARE PRODUCT is protected by copyright laws and international copyright
treaties, as well as other intellectual property laws and treaties. The SOFTWARE
PRODUCT is licensed, not sold.

  1. GRANT OF LICENSE. This EULA grants you the following rights:

      * Applications Software. You may install, use, access, display, run, or
        otherwise interact with ("RUN") one copy of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT, or any
        prior version for the same operating system, on a single computer,
        workstation, terminal, handheld PC, pager, "smart phone," or other
        digital electronic device ("COMPUTER"). The primary user of the COMPUTER
        on which the SOFTWARE PRODUCT is installed may make a second copy for his
        or her exclusive use on a portable computer.

      * Reservation of Rights. All rights not expressly granted are reserved by
        ACME.

  2. DESCRIPTION OF OTHER RIGHTS AND LIMITATIONS.

      * Not for Resale Software. If the SOFTWARE PRODUCT is labeled "Not For
        Resale" or "NFR," then, notwithstanding other sections of this EULA, your
        use of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT is limited to use for demonstration, test, or
        evaluation purposes and you may not resell, or otherwise transfer for
        value, the SOFTWARE PRODUCT.

      * Limitations on Reverse Engineering, Decompilation, and Disassembly. You
        may not reverse engineer, decompile, or disassemble the SOFTWARE PRODUCT,
        except and only to the extent that such activity is expressly permitted
        by applicable law.

      * Separation of Components. The SOFTWARE PRODUCT is licensed as a single
        product. Its component parts may not be separated for use on more than
        one COMPUTER.

      * Trademarks. This EULA does not grant you any rights in connection with
        any trademarks or service marks of ACME.

      * Rental. You may not rent, lease, or lend the SOFTWARE PRODUCT.

      * Support Services. ACME may provide you with support services related to
        the SOFTWARE PRODUCT ("Support Services"). Use of Support Services is
        governed by the ACME policies and programs described in the user manual,
        in "online" documentation, and/or in other ACME-provided materials. Any
        supplemental software code provided to you as part of the Support
        Services shall be considered part of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT and subject to
        the terms and conditions of this EULA.

      * Software Transfer. The initial licensee of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT may make
        a one-time permanent transfer of this EULA and SOFTWARE PRODUCT only
        directly to an end user. This transfer must include all of the SOFTWARE
        PRODUCT (including all component parts, the media and printed materials,
        any upgrades, this EULA, and, if applicable, the Certificate of
        Authenticity). Such transfer may not be by way of consignment or any
        other indirect transfer. The transferee of such one-time transfer must
        agree to comply with the terms of this EULA, including the obligation not
        to further transfer this EULA and SOFTWARE PRODUCT.

      * Termination. Without prejudice to any other rights, ACME may terminate
        this EULA if you fail to comply with the terms and conditions of this
        EULA. In such event, you must destroy all copies of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT
        and all of its component parts.

  3. COPYRIGHT. All title and copyrights in and to the SOFTWARE PRODUCT
    (including but not limited to any images, photographs, animations, video,
    audio, music, text, and "applets" incorporated into the SOFTWARE PRODUCT),
    the accompanying printed materials, and any copies of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT
    are owned by ACME or its suppliers. All title and intellectual property
    rights in and to the content that may be accessed through use of the SOFTWARE
    PRODUCT is the property of the respective content owner and may be protected
    by applicable copyright or other intellectual property laws and treaties.
    This EULA grants you no rights to use such content. If this SOFTWARE PRODUCT
    contains documentation that is provided only in electronic form, you may
    print one copy of such electronic documentation. You may not copy the printed
    materials accompanying the SOFTWARE PRODUCT.

  4. BACKUP COPY. After installation of one copy of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT pursuant
    to this EULA, you may keep the original media on which the SOFTWARE PRODUCT
    was provided by ACME solely for backup or archival purposes. If the original
    media is required to use the SOFTWARE PRODUCT on the COMPUTER, you may make
    one copy of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT solely for backup or archival purposes.
    Except as expressly provided in this EULA, you may not otherwise make copies
    of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT or the printed materials accompanying the SOFTWARE
    PRODUCT.

  5. U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS. All SOFTWARE PRODUCT provided to the U.S.
    Government pursuant to solicitations issued on or after December 1, 1995 is
    provided with the commercial rights and restrictions described elsewhere
    herein. All SOFTWARE PRODUCT provided to the U.S. Government pursuant to
    solicitations issued prior to December 1, 1995 is provided with RESTRICTED
    RIGHTS as provided for in FAR, 48 CFR 52.227-14 (JUNE 1987) or FAR, 48 CFR
    252.227-7013 (OCT 1988), as applicable.

  6. EXPORT RESTRICTIONS. This SOFTWARE PRODUCT has been classified by the US
    Government as exportable under License Exception TSU. Therefore the following
    terms apply: You agree that you will not export or re-export the SOFTWARE
    PRODUCT, any part thereof, or any process or service that is the direct
    product of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT (the foregoing collectively referred to as
    the Restricted Components), to any country, person or entity subject to U.S.
    export restrictions. You specifically agree not to export or re-export any of
    the Restricted Components (i) to any country to which the U.S. has embargoed
    or restricted the export of goods or services, which currently include, but
    are not necessarily limited to Cuba, Iran, Iraq, Libya, North Korea, Sudan
    and Syria, or to any national of any such country, wherever located, who
    intends to transmit or transport the Restricted Components back to such
    country; (ii) to any person or entity who you know or have reason to know
    will utilize the Restricted Components in the design, development or
    production of nuclear, chemical or biological weapons; or (iii) to any person
    or entity who has been prohibited from participating in U.S. export
    transactions by any federal agency of the U.S. government. You warrant and
    represent that neither the Bureau of Export Administration nor any other U.S.
    federal agency has suspended, revoked or denied your export privileges.


MISCELLANEOUS
-------------

This EULA is governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the
United States of America.


LIMITED WARRANTY
----------------

ACME warrants that (a) the SOFTWARE PRODUCT will perform substantially in
accordance with the accompanying written materials for a period of ninety (90)
days from the date of receipt, and (b) any Support Services provided by ACME
shall be substantially as described in applicable written materials provided to
you by ACME, and ACME support engineers will make commercially reasonable efforts
to solve any problem issues. Some states and jurisdictions do not allow
limitations on duration of an implied warranty, so the above limitation may not
apply to you.


CUSTOMER REMEDIES. ACMEs and its suppliersentire liability and your exclusive
remedy shall be, at ACMEs option, either (a) return of the price paid, if any, or
(b) repair or replacement of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT that does not meet ACMEs
Limited Warranty and which is returned to ACME with a copy of your receipt. This
Limited Warranty is void if failure of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT has resulted from
accident, abuse, or misapplication. Any replacement SOFTWARE PRODUCT will be
warranted for the remainder of the original warranty period or thirty (30) days,
whichever is longer.

NO OTHER WARRANTIES. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ACME AND
ITS SUPPLIERS DISCLAIM ALL OTHER WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS, EITHER EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT, WITH REGARD TO THE
SOFTWARE PRODUCT, AND THE PROVISION OF OR FAILURE TO PROVIDE SUPPORT SERVICES.
THIS LIMITED WARRANTY GIVES YOU SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS. YOU MAY HAVE OTHERS, WHICH
VARY FROM STATE/JURISDICTION TO STATE/JURISDICTION.
Â 
LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, in no
event shall ACME or its suppliers be liable for any special, incidental,
indirect, or consequential damages whatsoever (including, without limitation,
damages for loss of business profits, business interruption, loss of business
information, or any other pecuniary loss) arising out of the use of or inability
to use the SOFTWARE PRODUCT or the provision of or failure to provide Support
Services, even if ACME has been advised of the possibility of such damages. In
any case, ACMEs entire liability under any provision of this EULA shall be
limited to the greater of the amount actually paid by you for the SOFTWARE
PRODUCT or U.S. $5.00; provided, however, if you have entered into a ACME Support
Services Agreement, ACMEs entire liability regarding Support Services shall be
governed by the terms of that agreement. Because some states and jurisdictions do
not allow the exclusion or limitation of liability, the above limitation may not
apply to you.


