This copyright file applies both to the source package console-setup
and the binary Debian packages built from it.

In short, if you use console-setup with precompiled keyboard files,
then all installed files are covered by simple permissive non-copyleft
free software licenses.  However, several of the tools used for the
compilation of the package (in particular 'ckbcomp' and 'bdf2psf') are
covered by GPL, version 2 or later.  The Perl program 'ckbcomp' is
installed in the system when console-setup is not used with
precompiled keyboard files.

The exact copyright terms follow.

All console fonts are public domain by nature.

The source BDF-fonts in the directory Fonts/bdf are distributed under
many different licenses, see in the file copyright.fonts for details.

The program 'bdf2psf' used to convert the fonts from BDF format to the
format used on the consoles of Linux and FreeBSD is covered by GPL,
version 2 or later.

The keyboard files are borrowed from the XKeyboardConfig package.  For
the licenses of the keyboard files, see the file copyright.xkb.  The
XKeyboardConfig package was downloaded from

http://xlibs.freedesktop.org/xkbdesc/xkeyboard-config-0.8.tar.gz

Please notice, that Debian packages do not include the XKB files (they
are provided by a separate package xkb-data).  When, however, the
Debian package console-setup-mini is installed, it includes
precompiled version of the keyboard files, so the terms in the file
/usr/share/doc/keyboard-configuration/copyright.xkb.gz apply.

The manual pages are distributed according to GNU all-permissive license:

Copyright (C) 2007, 2011 Anton Zinoviev <anton@lml.bas.bg>

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without
modification, are permitted in any medium without royalty provided
the copyright notice and this notice are preserved.  This file is
offered as-is, without any warranty.

The programs 'setupcon' and 'ckbcomp-mini' are distributed according
to the following license:

Copyright (C) 2011 Anton Zinoviev <anton@lml.bas.bg>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this file (the "Program"), to deal in the Program without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy,
modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of
the Program, and to permit persons to whom the Program is furnished to
do so, subject to the following conditions: The above copyright notice
and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or
substantial portions of the Program.

THE PROGRAM IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
PROGRAM OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE PROGRAM.

Everything else in this package is

Copyright (c) 1999,2000,2001,2002,2003,2006,2007,2008,2009,2010,2011 Anton Zinoviev, anton@lml.bas.bg

It is distributed under terms of the GNU General Public License
version 2.0 or (at your choice) any later version.

It is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA
02110-1301, USA

In the source package of console-setup the complete text of the GNU
General Public License, version 2 can be found in the file GPL-2.  On
Debian GNU/Linux systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public
License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL-2.
