content/cumulus-linux-58/Network-Virtualization/Ethernet-Virtual-Private-Network-EVPN/EVPN-PIM.md, before:

---
title: EVPN BUM Traffic with PIM-SM
author: NVIDIA
weight: 580
toc: 4
---
{{%notice info%}}
Cumulus Linux 5.8 only supports Head-End Replication (HREP) for handling BUM traffic in an EVPN configuration. BUM handling using a PIM-SM Multicast tree is not supported.
{{%/notice%}}

Without EVPN and <span class="a-tooltip">[PIM-SM](## "Sparse Mode")</span>, <span class="a-tooltip">[HER](## "Head End Replication")</span> is the default way to replicate BUM traffic to remote VTEPs, where the ingress VTEP generates the same number of copies as VTEPs for each overlay BUM packet. In certain deployments, this is not optimal.

The following example shows a EVPN-PIM configuration, where underlay multicast distributes BUM traffic. An <span class="a-tooltip">[MDT](## "multicast Distribution Tree")</span> optimizes the flow of overlay BUM traffic in the underlay network.

{{< img src = "/images/cumulus-linux/evpn-pim.png" >}}

In the above example, host01 sends an ARP request to resolve host03. leaf01 (in addition to flooding the packet to host02) sends an encapsulated packet over the underlay network, which the spine forwards using the MDT to leaf02 and leaf03.

For PIM-SM, type-3 routes do not result in any forwarding entries. Cumulus Linux does **not** advertise type-3 routes for a layer 2 VNI when BUM mode for that VNI is PIM-SM.

## Configure Multicast VXLAN Tunnels

To configure multicast VXLAN tunnels, you need to configure PIM-SM in the underlay:

- Enable <span class="a-tooltip">[PIM-SM](## "Sparse Mode")</span> on the appropriate layer 3 interfaces.
- Configure static RP on all the PIM routers.
- Configure <span class="a-tooltip">[MSDP](## "Multicast Source Discovery Protocol")</span> on the <span class="a-tooltip">[RPs](## "Rendezvous Points")</span> for RP redundancy.

For the configuration steps to configure PIM-SM in the underlay, refer to {{<link url="Protocol-Independent-Multicast-PIM">}}.

In addition to the PIM-SM configuration, you need to run the following commands on each VTEP to provide the layer 2 VNI to MDT mapping.

{{< tabs "TabID37 ">}}
{{< tab "NVUE Commands ">}}

Run the `nv set nve vxlan flooding multicast-group <ip-address>` command. For example:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set nve vxlan flooding multicast-group 224.0.0.10
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "Linux Commands ">}}

Edit the `/etc/network/interfaces` file and add `vxlan-mcastgrp <ip-address>` to the interface stanza. For example:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo vi /etc/network/interfaces
...
auto vxlan10
iface vxlan10
  vxlan-id 10
  vxlan-mcastgrp 224.0.0.10
  ...
```

Run the `ifreload -a` command to load the new configuration:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ ifreload -a
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{%notice note%}}
One multicast group per layer 2 VNI is optimal configuration for underlay bandwidth utilization. However, you can specify the same multicast group for more than one layer 2 VNI.
{{%/notice%}}
<!-- vale off -->
## Verify EVPN-PIM
<!-- vale on -->
Run the `net show mroute` command or the vtysh `show ip mroute` command to review the multicast route information in FRR. When using EVPN-PIM, every VTEP acts as both source and destination for a VNI-MDT group, therefore, mroute entries on each VTEP should look like this:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo vtysh
...
switch# show ip mroute
IP Multicast Routing Table
Flags: S - Sparse, C - Connected, P - Pruned
       R - RP-bit set, F - Register flag, T - SPT-bit set

Source          Group           Flags    Proto  Input            Output           TTL  Uptime
*               224.0.0.10      S        IGMP   swp54            pimreg           1    23:20:54
                                                                 ipmr-lo          1            
10.10.10.1      224.0.0.10      SFT      PIM    lo               swp51            1    23:20:56
*               224.0.0.20      S        IGMP   swp53            pimreg           1    23:20:54
                                                                 ipmr-lo          1            
10.10.10.1      224.0.0.20      SFT      PIM    lo               swp52            1    23:20:56
*               224.0.0.30      S        IGMP   swp51            pimreg           1    23:20:54
                                                                 ipmr-lo          1            
10.10.10.1      224.0.0.30      SFT      PIM    lo               swp53            1    23:20:56
```

(*,G) entries should show `ipmr-lo` in the OIL (Outgoing Interface List) and (S,G) entries should show `lo` as the Source interface or incoming interface and `ipmr-lo` in the OIL.

Run the `ip mroute` command to review the multicast route information in the kernel. The kernel information should match the FRR information.

```
cumulus@switch:~$ ip mroute
(10.10.10.1,224.0.0.30)          Iif: lo         Oifs: swp53  State: resolved
(10.10.10.1,224.0.0.20)          Iif: lo         Oifs: swp52  State: resolved
(10.10.10.1,224.0.0.10)          Iif: lo         Oifs: swp51  State: resolved
(0.0.0.0,224.0.0.10)             Iif: swp54      Oifs: pimreg ipmr-lo swp54  State: resolved
(0.0.0.0,224.0.0.20)             Iif: swp53      Oifs: pimreg ipmr-lo swp53  State: resolved
(0.0.0.0,224.0.0.30)             Iif: swp51      Oifs: pimreg ipmr-lo swp51  State: resolved
```

Run the `bridge fdb show | grep 00:00:00:00:00:00` command to verify that all zero MAC addresses for every VXLAN device point to the correct multicast group destination.

```
cumulus@switch:~$ bridge fdb show | grep 00:00:00:00:00:00
00:00:00:00:00:00 dev vxlan10 dst 224.0.0.10 self permanent
00:00:00:00:00:00 dev vxlan20 dst 224.0.0.20 self permanent
```

{{%notice note%}}
The `show ip mroute count` command, often used to check multicast packet counts does *not* update for encapsulated BUM traffic originating or terminating on the VTEPs.
{{%/notice%}}

Run the `net show evpn vni <vni>` command or the vtysh `show evpn vni <vni>` command to ensure that your layer 2 VNI has the correct flooding information:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo vtysh
switch# show evpn vni 10
VNI: 10
 Type: L2
 Tenant VRF: default
 VxLAN interface: vni10
 VxLAN ifIndex: 18
 Local VTEP IP: 10.10.10.1
 Mcast group: 224.0.0.10   <<<<<<<
 Remote VTEPs for this VNI:
  10.10.10.3 flood: -
 Number of MACs (local and remote) known for this VNI: 6
 Number of ARPs (IPv4 and IPv6, local and remote) known for this VNI: 14
 Advertise-gw-macip: No
```

## Example Configuration

The following example shows an EVPN-PIM configuration on the VTEP, where:

- PIM is on swp51 thru swp54 and the loopback interface (see the example `/etc/frr/frr.conf` file below).
- The group mapping 10.10.100.100 is for a static RP (see the top of the `/etc/frr/frr.conf` file example below).
- Multicast group 224.0.0.10 maps to VNI10, multicast group 224.0.0.20 maps to VNI20, and multicast group 224.0.0.30 maps to VNI30 (see the example `/etc/network/interfaces` file below).

{{< tabs "TabID87 ">}}
{{< tab "/etc/frr/frr.conf file ">}}

```
cumulus@leaf01:~$ sudo cat /etc/frr/frr.conf
...
ip pim rp 10.10.100.100
ip pim keep-alive-timer 3600
ip pim ecmp
service integrated-vtysh-config
vrf BLUE
 vni 4002
 exit-vrf
vrf RED
 vni 4001
 exit-vrf
vrf mgmt
 ip route 0.0.0.0/0 192.168.200.1
 exit-vrf
interface swp51
 ip pim
interface swp52
 ip pim
interface swp53
 ip pim
interface swp54
 ip pim
interface lo
 ip igmp
 ip pim
 ip pim use-source 10.10.10.1
router bgp 65101
 bgp router-id 10.10.10.1
 neighbor underlay peer-group
 neighbor underlay remote-as external
 neighbor swp51 interface peer-group underlay
 neighbor swp52 interface peer-group underlay
 neighbor swp53 interface peer-group underlay
 neighbor swp54 interface peer-group underlay
 !
 address-family ipv4 unicast
  redistribute connected
 exit-address-family
 !
 address-family l2vpn evpn
  neighbor underlay activate
  advertise-all-vni
 exit-address-family
 !
router bgp 65101 vrf RED
 bgp router-id 10.10.10.1
 !
 address-family ipv4 unicast
  redistribute connected
 exit-address-family
 !
 address-family l2vpn evpn
  advertise ipv4 unicast
 exit-address-family
!
router bgp 65101 vrf BLUE
 bgp router-id 10.10.10.1
 !
 address-family ipv4 unicast
  redistribute connected
 exit-address-family
 !
 address-family l2vpn evpn
  advertise ipv4 unicast
 exit-address-family
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "/etc/network/interfaces file ">}}

```
cumulus@leaf01:~$ sudo cat /etc/network/interfaces
...
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
    address 10.10.10.1/32
    vxlan-local-tunnelip 10.10.10.1

auto eth0
iface eth0
    vrf mgmt
    address 192.168.200.11/24

auto mgmt
iface mgmt
  vrf-table auto
  address 127.0.0.1/8
  address ::1/128

auto RED
iface RED
  vrf-table auto

auto BLUE
iface BLUE
  vrf-table auto

auto bridge
iface bridge
    bridge-ports bond1 bond2 bond3
    bridge-ports vni10 vni20 vni30 vniRED vniBLUE 
    bridge-vids 10 20 30
    bridge-vlan-aware yes

auto vni10
iface vni10
    bridge-access 10
    vxlan-id 10
    mstpctl-portbpdufilter yes
    mstpctl-bpduguard yes
    bridge-learning off
    bridge-arp-nd-suppress on
    vxlan-mcastgrp 224.0.0.10

auto vni20
iface vni20
    bridge-access 20
    vxlan-id 20
    mstpctl-portbpdufilter yes
    mstpctl-bpduguard yes
    bridge-learning off
    bridge-arp-nd-suppress on
    vxlan-mcastgrp 224.0.0.20

auto vni30
iface vni30
    bridge-access 30
    vxlan-id 30
    mstpctl-portbpdufilter yes
    mstpctl-bpduguard yes
    bridge-learning off
    bridge-arp-nd-suppress on
    vxlan-mcastgrp 224.0.0.30

auto vniRED
iface vniRED
    bridge-access 4001
    vxlan-id 4001
    mstpctl-portbpdufilter yes
    mstpctl-bpduguard yes
    bridge-learning off
    bridge-arp-nd-suppress on

auto vniBLUE
iface vniBLUE
    bridge-access 4002
    vxlan-id 4002
    mstpctl-portbpdufilter yes
    mstpctl-bpduguard yes
    bridge-learning off
    bridge-arp-nd-suppress on

auto vlan10
iface vlan10
    address 10.1.10.2/24
    address-virtual 00:00:00:00:00:10 10.1.10.1/24
    vrf RED
    vlan-raw-device bridge
    vlan-id 10

auto vlan20
iface vlan20
    address 10.1.20.2/24
    address-virtual 00:00:00:00:00:20 10.1.20.1/24
    vrf RED
    vlan-raw-device bridge
    vlan-id 20

auto vlan30
iface vlan30
    address 10.1.30.2/24
    address-virtual 00:00:00:00:00:30 10.1.30.1/24
    vrf BLUE
    vlan-raw-device bridge
    vlan-id 30

auto vlan4001
iface vlan4001
    hwaddress 44:38:39:BE:EF:AA
    vrf RED
    vlan-raw-device bridge
    vlan-id 4001

auto vlan4002
iface vlan4002
    hwaddress 44:38:39:BE:EF:AA
    vrf BLUE
    vlan-raw-device bridge
    vlan-id 4002

auto swp51
iface swp51
    alias to spine

auto swp52
iface swp52
    alias to spine

auto swp53
iface swp53
    alias to spine

auto swp54
iface swp54
    alias to spine

auto swp1
iface swp1
    alias bond member of bond1

auto bond1
iface bond1
    bond-slaves swp1 
    bridge-access 10
    mtu 9000
    bond-lacp-bypass-allow yes
    mstpctl-bpduguard yes
    mstpctl-portadminedge yes

auto swp2
iface swp2
    alias bond member of bond2

auto bond2
iface bond2
    bond-slaves swp2 
    bridge-access 20
    mtu 9000
    bond-lacp-bypass-allow yes
    mstpctl-bpduguard yes
    mstpctl-portadminedge yes

auto swp3
iface swp3
    alias bond member of bond3

auto bond3
iface bond3
    bond-slaves swp3 
    bridge-access 30
    mtu 9000
    bond-lacp-bypass-allow yes
    mstpctl-bpduguard yes
    mstpctl-portadminedge yes
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}
<!-- vale off -->
## Configure EVPN-PIM in VXLAN Active-active Mode
<!-- vale on -->
{{< img src = "/images/cumulus-linux/evpn-pim-anycast-vteps.png" >}}

To configure EVPN-PIM with an MLAG pair in VXLAN active-active mode, enable PIM on the peer link subinterface of each MLAG peer switch (**in addition to** the configuration described in {{<link url="#configure-multicast-vxlan-tunnels" text="Configure Multicast VXLAN Tunnels">}}, above).

{{< tabs "TabID412 ">}}
{{< tab "NVUE Commands ">}}

Run the `nv set interface <peerlink> router pim` command. For example:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set interface peerlink.4094 router pim
cumulus@switch:~$ nv config apply
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "vtysh Commands ">}}

In the vtysh shell, run the following commands:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo vtysh

switch# configure terminal
switch(config)# interface peerlink.4094
switch(config-if)# ip pim
switch(config-if)# end
switch# write memory
switch# exit
cumulus@switch:~$
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Commit message:

add note about spectrum A1 PIM SIM support

content/cumulus-linux-58/Network-Virtualization/Ethernet-Virtual-Private-Network-EVPN/EVPN-PIM.md, after:

---
title: EVPN BUM Traffic with PIM-SM
author: NVIDIA
weight: 580
toc: 4
---
{{%notice info%}}
On Spectrum 1A switches, EVPN multihoming needs a PIM-SM underlay to distribute BUM traffic; the Spectrum 1A switch does not support <span class="a-tooltip">[HER](## "Head End Replication")</span> with EVPN multihoming.
{{%/notice%}}

Without EVPN and <span class="a-tooltip">[PIM-SM](## "Sparse Mode")</span>, <span class="a-tooltip">[HER](## "Head End Replication")</span> is the default way to replicate BUM traffic to remote VTEPs, where the ingress VTEP generates the same number of copies as VTEPs for each overlay BUM packet. In certain deployments, this is not optimal.

The following example shows a EVPN-PIM configuration, where underlay multicast distributes BUM traffic. An <span class="a-tooltip">[MDT](## "multicast Distribution Tree")</span> optimizes the flow of overlay BUM traffic in the underlay network.

{{< img src = "/images/cumulus-linux/evpn-pim.png" >}}

In the above example, host01 sends an ARP request to resolve host03. leaf01 (in addition to flooding the packet to host02) sends an encapsulated packet over the underlay network, which the spine forwards using the MDT to leaf02 and leaf03.

For PIM-SM, type-3 routes do not result in any forwarding entries. Cumulus Linux does **not** advertise type-3 routes for a layer 2 VNI when BUM mode for that VNI is PIM-SM.

## Configure Multicast VXLAN Tunnels

To configure multicast VXLAN tunnels, you need to configure PIM-SM in the underlay:

- Enable <span class="a-tooltip">[PIM-SM](## "Sparse Mode")</span> on the appropriate layer 3 interfaces.
- Configure static RP on all the PIM routers.
- Configure <span class="a-tooltip">[MSDP](## "Multicast Source Discovery Protocol")</span> on the <span class="a-tooltip">[RPs](## "Rendezvous Points")</span> for RP redundancy.

For the configuration steps to configure PIM-SM in the underlay, refer to {{<link url="Protocol-Independent-Multicast-PIM">}}.

In addition to the PIM-SM configuration, you need to run the following commands on each VTEP to provide the layer 2 VNI to MDT mapping.

{{< tabs "TabID37 ">}}
{{< tab "NVUE Commands ">}}

Run the `nv set nve vxlan flooding multicast-group <ip-address>` command. For example:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set nve vxlan flooding multicast-group 224.0.0.10
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "Linux Commands ">}}

Edit the `/etc/network/interfaces` file and add `vxlan-mcastgrp <ip-address>` to the interface stanza. For example:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo vi /etc/network/interfaces
...
auto vxlan10
iface vxlan10
  vxlan-id 10
  vxlan-mcastgrp 224.0.0.10
  ...
```

Run the `ifreload -a` command to load the new configuration:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ ifreload -a
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{%notice note%}}
One multicast group per layer 2 VNI is optimal configuration for underlay bandwidth utilization. However, you can specify the same multicast group for more than one layer 2 VNI.
{{%/notice%}}
<!-- vale off -->
## Verify EVPN-PIM
<!-- vale on -->
Run the `net show mroute` command or the vtysh `show ip mroute` command to review the multicast route information in FRR. When using EVPN-PIM, every VTEP acts as both source and destination for a VNI-MDT group, therefore, mroute entries on each VTEP should look like this:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo vtysh
...
switch# show ip mroute
IP Multicast Routing Table
Flags: S - Sparse, C - Connected, P - Pruned
       R - RP-bit set, F - Register flag, T - SPT-bit set

Source          Group           Flags    Proto  Input            Output           TTL  Uptime
*               224.0.0.10      S        IGMP   swp54            pimreg           1    23:20:54
                                                                 ipmr-lo          1            
10.10.10.1      224.0.0.10      SFT      PIM    lo               swp51            1    23:20:56
*               224.0.0.20      S        IGMP   swp53            pimreg           1    23:20:54
                                                                 ipmr-lo          1            
10.10.10.1      224.0.0.20      SFT      PIM    lo               swp52            1    23:20:56
*               224.0.0.30      S        IGMP   swp51            pimreg           1    23:20:54
                                                                 ipmr-lo          1            
10.10.10.1      224.0.0.30      SFT      PIM    lo               swp53            1    23:20:56
```

(*,G) entries should show `ipmr-lo` in the OIL (Outgoing Interface List) and (S,G) entries should show `lo` as the Source interface or incoming interface and `ipmr-lo` in the OIL.

Run the `ip mroute` command to review the multicast route information in the kernel. The kernel information should match the FRR information.

```
cumulus@switch:~$ ip mroute
(10.10.10.1,224.0.0.30)          Iif: lo         Oifs: swp53  State: resolved
(10.10.10.1,224.0.0.20)          Iif: lo         Oifs: swp52  State: resolved
(10.10.10.1,224.0.0.10)          Iif: lo         Oifs: swp51  State: resolved
(0.0.0.0,224.0.0.10)             Iif: swp54      Oifs: pimreg ipmr-lo swp54  State: resolved
(0.0.0.0,224.0.0.20)             Iif: swp53      Oifs: pimreg ipmr-lo swp53  State: resolved
(0.0.0.0,224.0.0.30)             Iif: swp51      Oifs: pimreg ipmr-lo swp51  State: resolved
```

Run the `bridge fdb show | grep 00:00:00:00:00:00` command to verify that all zero MAC addresses for every VXLAN device point to the correct multicast group destination.

```
cumulus@switch:~$ bridge fdb show | grep 00:00:00:00:00:00
00:00:00:00:00:00 dev vxlan10 dst 224.0.0.10 self permanent
00:00:00:00:00:00 dev vxlan20 dst 224.0.0.20 self permanent
```

{{%notice note%}}
The `show ip mroute count` command, often used to check multicast packet counts does *not* update for encapsulated BUM traffic originating or terminating on the VTEPs.
{{%/notice%}}

Run the `net show evpn vni <vni>` command or the vtysh `show evpn vni <vni>` command to ensure that your layer 2 VNI has the correct flooding information:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo vtysh
switch# show evpn vni 10
VNI: 10
 Type: L2
 Tenant VRF: default
 VxLAN interface: vni10
 VxLAN ifIndex: 18
 Local VTEP IP: 10.10.10.1
 Mcast group: 224.0.0.10   <<<<<<<
 Remote VTEPs for this VNI:
  10.10.10.3 flood: -
 Number of MACs (local and remote) known for this VNI: 6
 Number of ARPs (IPv4 and IPv6, local and remote) known for this VNI: 14
 Advertise-gw-macip: No
```

## Example Configuration

The following example shows an EVPN-PIM configuration on the VTEP, where:

- PIM is on swp51 thru swp54 and the loopback interface (see the example `/etc/frr/frr.conf` file below).
- The group mapping 10.10.100.100 is for a static RP (see the top of the `/etc/frr/frr.conf` file example below).
- Multicast group 224.0.0.10 maps to VNI10, multicast group 224.0.0.20 maps to VNI20, and multicast group 224.0.0.30 maps to VNI30 (see the example `/etc/network/interfaces` file below).

{{< tabs "TabID87 ">}}
{{< tab "/etc/frr/frr.conf file ">}}

```
cumulus@leaf01:~$ sudo cat /etc/frr/frr.conf
...
ip pim rp 10.10.100.100
ip pim keep-alive-timer 3600
ip pim ecmp
service integrated-vtysh-config
vrf BLUE
 vni 4002
 exit-vrf
vrf RED
 vni 4001
 exit-vrf
vrf mgmt
 ip route 0.0.0.0/0 192.168.200.1
 exit-vrf
interface swp51
 ip pim
interface swp52
 ip pim
interface swp53
 ip pim
interface swp54
 ip pim
interface lo
 ip igmp
 ip pim
 ip pim use-source 10.10.10.1
router bgp 65101
 bgp router-id 10.10.10.1
 neighbor underlay peer-group
 neighbor underlay remote-as external
 neighbor swp51 interface peer-group underlay
 neighbor swp52 interface peer-group underlay
 neighbor swp53 interface peer-group underlay
 neighbor swp54 interface peer-group underlay
 !
 address-family ipv4 unicast
  redistribute connected
 exit-address-family
 !
 address-family l2vpn evpn
  neighbor underlay activate
  advertise-all-vni
 exit-address-family
 !
router bgp 65101 vrf RED
 bgp router-id 10.10.10.1
 !
 address-family ipv4 unicast
  redistribute connected
 exit-address-family
 !
 address-family l2vpn evpn
  advertise ipv4 unicast
 exit-address-family
!
router bgp 65101 vrf BLUE
 bgp router-id 10.10.10.1
 !
 address-family ipv4 unicast
  redistribute connected
 exit-address-family
 !
 address-family l2vpn evpn
  advertise ipv4 unicast
 exit-address-family
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "/etc/network/interfaces file ">}}

```
cumulus@leaf01:~$ sudo cat /etc/network/interfaces
...
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
    address 10.10.10.1/32
    vxlan-local-tunnelip 10.10.10.1

auto eth0
iface eth0
    vrf mgmt
    address 192.168.200.11/24

auto mgmt
iface mgmt
  vrf-table auto
  address 127.0.0.1/8
  address ::1/128

auto RED
iface RED
  vrf-table auto

auto BLUE
iface BLUE
  vrf-table auto

auto bridge
iface bridge
    bridge-ports bond1 bond2 bond3
    bridge-ports vni10 vni20 vni30 vniRED vniBLUE 
    bridge-vids 10 20 30
    bridge-vlan-aware yes

auto vni10
iface vni10
    bridge-access 10
    vxlan-id 10
    mstpctl-portbpdufilter yes
    mstpctl-bpduguard yes
    bridge-learning off
    bridge-arp-nd-suppress on
    vxlan-mcastgrp 224.0.0.10

auto vni20
iface vni20
    bridge-access 20
    vxlan-id 20
    mstpctl-portbpdufilter yes
    mstpctl-bpduguard yes
    bridge-learning off
    bridge-arp-nd-suppress on
    vxlan-mcastgrp 224.0.0.20

auto vni30
iface vni30
    bridge-access 30
    vxlan-id 30
    mstpctl-portbpdufilter yes
    mstpctl-bpduguard yes
    bridge-learning off
    bridge-arp-nd-suppress on
    vxlan-mcastgrp 224.0.0.30

auto vniRED
iface vniRED
    bridge-access 4001
    vxlan-id 4001
    mstpctl-portbpdufilter yes
    mstpctl-bpduguard yes
    bridge-learning off
    bridge-arp-nd-suppress on

auto vniBLUE
iface vniBLUE
    bridge-access 4002
    vxlan-id 4002
    mstpctl-portbpdufilter yes
    mstpctl-bpduguard yes
    bridge-learning off
    bridge-arp-nd-suppress on

auto vlan10
iface vlan10
    address 10.1.10.2/24
    address-virtual 00:00:00:00:00:10 10.1.10.1/24
    vrf RED
    vlan-raw-device bridge
    vlan-id 10

auto vlan20
iface vlan20
    address 10.1.20.2/24
    address-virtual 00:00:00:00:00:20 10.1.20.1/24
    vrf RED
    vlan-raw-device bridge
    vlan-id 20

auto vlan30
iface vlan30
    address 10.1.30.2/24
    address-virtual 00:00:00:00:00:30 10.1.30.1/24
    vrf BLUE
    vlan-raw-device bridge
    vlan-id 30

auto vlan4001
iface vlan4001
    hwaddress 44:38:39:BE:EF:AA
    vrf RED
    vlan-raw-device bridge
    vlan-id 4001

auto vlan4002
iface vlan4002
    hwaddress 44:38:39:BE:EF:AA
    vrf BLUE
    vlan-raw-device bridge
    vlan-id 4002

auto swp51
iface swp51
    alias to spine

auto swp52
iface swp52
    alias to spine

auto swp53
iface swp53
    alias to spine

auto swp54
iface swp54
    alias to spine

auto swp1
iface swp1
    alias bond member of bond1

auto bond1
iface bond1
    bond-slaves swp1 
    bridge-access 10
    mtu 9000
    bond-lacp-bypass-allow yes
    mstpctl-bpduguard yes
    mstpctl-portadminedge yes

auto swp2
iface swp2
    alias bond member of bond2

auto bond2
iface bond2
    bond-slaves swp2 
    bridge-access 20
    mtu 9000
    bond-lacp-bypass-allow yes
    mstpctl-bpduguard yes
    mstpctl-portadminedge yes

auto swp3
iface swp3
    alias bond member of bond3

auto bond3
iface bond3
    bond-slaves swp3 
    bridge-access 30
    mtu 9000
    bond-lacp-bypass-allow yes
    mstpctl-bpduguard yes
    mstpctl-portadminedge yes
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}
<!-- vale off -->
## Configure EVPN-PIM in VXLAN Active-active Mode
<!-- vale on -->
{{< img src = "/images/cumulus-linux/evpn-pim-anycast-vteps.png" >}}

To configure EVPN-PIM with an MLAG pair in VXLAN active-active mode, enable PIM on the peer link subinterface of each MLAG peer switch (**in addition to** the configuration described in {{<link url="#configure-multicast-vxlan-tunnels" text="Configure Multicast VXLAN Tunnels">}}, above).

{{< tabs "TabID412 ">}}
{{< tab "NVUE Commands ">}}

Run the `nv set interface <peerlink> router pim` command. For example:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set interface peerlink.4094 router pim
cumulus@switch:~$ nv config apply
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "vtysh Commands ">}}

In the vtysh shell, run the following commands:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo vtysh

switch# configure terminal
switch(config)# interface peerlink.4094
switch(config-if)# ip pim
switch(config-if)# end
switch# write memory
switch# exit
cumulus@switch:~$
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}
