This package was originally debianized by Stephen M Moraco <stephen@debian.org>
 on Fri, 31 Dec 1999 15:37:17 -0700.

It was downloaded from http://www.graphviz.org/


Upstream Authors:

   John Ellson, Lucent (TCL/tk and codegen extensions)
   Emden Gansner, AT&T Research (dot, neato)
   Eleftherios Koutsofios, AT&T Research (dotty, lefty, spline-o-matic)
   John Mocenigo, AT&T Research (Grappa)
   Stephen North, AT&T Research (dot, neato)
   Gordon Woodhull (Montage)
      and
   David Dobkin (spline-o-matic)
   Vladimir Alexiev (codegen improvements)


Copyright:

   Copyright 1994-2007 AT&T Corp.


License:
                  Common Public License Version 1.0

THE ACCOMPANYING PROGRAM IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS COMMON PUBLIC
LICENSE ("AGREEMENT"). ANY USE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM
CONSTITUTES RECIPIENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT.

1. DEFINITIONS

"Contribution" means:

    a) in the case of the initial Contributor, the initial code and
documentation distributed under this Agreement, and

    b) in the case of each subsequent Contributor:

    i) changes to the Program, and

    ii) additions to the Program;

    where such changes and/or additions to the Program originate from and are
distributed by that particular Contributor. A Contribution 'originates' from a
Contributor if it was added to the Program by such Contributor itself or anyone
acting on such Contributor's behalf. Contributions do not include additions to
the Program which: (i) are separate modules of software distributed in
conjunction with the Program under their own license agreement, and (ii) are not
derivative works of the Program.

"Contributor" means any person or entity that distributes the Program.

"Licensed Patents " mean patent claims licensable by a Contributor which are
necessarily infringed by the use or sale of its Contribution alone or when
combined with the Program.

"Program" means the Contributions distributed in accordance with this Agreement.

"Recipient" means anyone who receives the Program under this Agreement,
including all Contributors.

2. GRANT OF RIGHTS

    a) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants
Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright license to
reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display, publicly perform,
distribute and sublicense the Contribution of such Contributor, if any, and such
derivative works, in source code and object code form.

    b) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants
Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent license under Licensed
Patents to make, use, sell, offer to sell, import and otherwise transfer the
Contribution of such Contributor, if any, in source code and object code form.
This patent license shall apply to the combination of the Contribution and the
Program if, at the time the Contribution is added by the Contributor, such
addition of the Contribution causes such combination to be covered by the
Licensed Patents. The patent license shall not apply to any other combinations
which include the Contribution. No hardware per se is licensed hereunder.

    c) Recipient understands that although each Contributor grants the licenses
to its Contributions set forth herein, no assurances are provided by any
Contributor that the Program does not infringe the patent or other intellectual
property rights of any other entity. Each Contributor disclaims any liability to
Recipient for claims brought by any other entity based on infringement of
intellectual property rights or otherwise. As a condition to exercising the
rights and licenses granted hereunder, each Recipient hereby assumes sole
responsibility to secure any other intellectual property rights needed, if any.
For example, if a third party patent license is required to allow Recipient to
distribute the Program, it is Recipient's responsibility to acquire that license
before distributing the Program.

    d) Each Contributor represents that to its knowledge it has sufficient
copyright rights in its Contribution, if any, to grant the copyright license set
forth in this Agreement.

3. REQUIREMENTS

A Contributor may choose to distribute the Program in object code form under its
own license agreement, provided that:

    a) it complies with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and

    b) its license agreement:

    i) effectively disclaims on behalf of all Contributors all warranties and
conditions, express and implied, including warranties or conditions of title and
non-infringement, and implied warranties or conditions of merchantability and
fitness for a particular purpose;

    ii) effectively excludes on behalf of all Contributors all liability for
damages, including direct, indirect, special, incidental and consequential
damages, such as lost profits;

    iii) states that any provisions which differ from this Agreement are offered
by that Contributor alone and not by any other party; and

    iv) states that source code for the Program is available from such
Contributor, and informs licensees how to obtain it in a reasonable manner on or
through a medium customarily used for software exchange.

When the Program is made available in source code form:

    a) it must be made available under this Agreement; and

    b) a copy of this Agreement must be included with each copy of the Program.

Contributors may not remove or alter any copyright notices contained within the
Program.

Each Contributor must identify itself as the originator of its Contribution, if
any, in a manner that reasonably allows subsequent Recipients to identify the
originator of the Contribution.

4. COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION

Commercial distributors of software may accept certain responsibilities with
respect to end users, business partners and the like. While this license is
intended to facilitate the commercial use of the Program, the Contributor who
includes the Program in a commercial product offering should do so in a manner
which does not create potential liability for other Contributors. Therefore, if
a Contributor includes the Program in a commercial product offering, such
Contributor ("Commercial Contributor") hereby agrees to defend and indemnify
every other Contributor ("Indemnified Contributor") against any losses, damages
and costs (collectively "Losses") arising from claims, lawsuits and other legal
actions brought by a third party against the Indemnified Contributor to the
extent caused by the acts or omissions of such Commercial Contributor in
connection with its distribution of the Program in a commercial product
offering. The obligations in this section do not apply to any claims or Losses
relating to any actual or alleged intellectual property infringement. In order
to qualify, an Indemnified Contributor must: a) promptly notify the Commercial
Contributor in writing of such claim, and b) allow the Commercial Contributor to
control, and cooperate with the Commercial Contributor in, the defense and any
related settlement negotiations. The Indemnified Contributor may participate in
any such claim at its own expense.

For example, a Contributor might include the Program in a commercial product
offering, Product X. That Contributor is then a Commercial Contributor. If that
Commercial Contributor then makes performance claims, or offers warranties
related to Product X, those performance claims and warranties are such
Commercial Contributor's responsibility alone. Under this section, the
Commercial Contributor would have to defend claims against the other
Contributors related to those performance claims and warranties, and if a court
requires any other Contributor to pay any damages as a result, the Commercial
Contributor must pay those damages.

5. NO WARRANTY

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE PROGRAM IS PROVIDED ON AN
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE,
NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Each
Recipient is solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using and
distributing the Program and assumes all risks associated with its exercise of
rights under this Agreement, including but not limited to the risks and costs of
program errors, compliance with applicable laws, damage to or loss of data,
programs or equipment, and unavailability or interruption of operations.

6. DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER RECIPIENT NOR ANY
CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST
PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS
GRANTED HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

7. GENERAL

If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable under applicable
law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remainder of the
terms of this Agreement, and without further action by the parties hereto, such
provision shall be reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make such
provision valid and enforceable.

If Recipient institutes patent litigation against a Contributor with respect to
a patent applicable to software (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a
lawsuit), then any patent licenses granted by that Contributor to such Recipient
under this Agreement shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed. In
addition, if Recipient institutes patent litigation against any entity
(including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Program
itself (excluding combinations of the Program with other software or hardware)
infringes such Recipient's patent(s), then such Recipient's rights granted under
Section 2(b) shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.

All Recipient's rights under this Agreement shall terminate if it fails to
comply with any of the material terms or conditions of this Agreement and does
not cure such failure in a reasonable period of time after becoming aware of
such noncompliance. If all Recipient's rights under this Agreement terminate,
Recipient agrees to cease use and distribution of the Program as soon as
reasonably practicable. However, Recipient's obligations under this Agreement
and any licenses granted by Recipient relating to the Program shall continue and
survive.

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute copies of this Agreement, but in
order to avoid inconsistency the Agreement is copyrighted and may only be
modified in the following manner. The Agreement Steward reserves the right to
publish new versions (including revisions) of this Agreement from time to time.
No one other than the Agreement Steward has the right to modify this Agreement.
IBM is the initial Agreement Steward. IBM may assign the responsibility to serve
as the Agreement Steward to a suitable separate entity. Each new version of the
Agreement will be given a distinguishing version number. The Program (including
Contributions) may always be distributed subject to the version of the Agreement
under which it was received. In addition, after a new version of the Agreement
is published, Contributor may elect to distribute the Program (including its
Contributions) under the new version. Except as expressly stated in Sections
2(a) and 2(b) above, Recipient receives no rights or licenses to the
intellectual property of any Contributor under this Agreement, whether
expressly, by implication, estoppel or otherwise. All rights in the Program not
expressly granted under this Agreement are reserved.

This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of New York and the
intellectual property laws of the United States of America. No party to this
Agreement will bring a legal action under this Agreement more than one year
after the cause of action arose. Each party waives its rights to a jury trial in
any resulting litigation.

----

The above copyright and licence applies to all files/directories except where noted below ...

cmd/smyrna
  Copyright: Arif Bilgin <arif@research.att.com>, Emden R. Gansner <erg@research.att.com>
  Except for the following three exceptions:

cmd/smyrna/trackball.[ch]
  (c) Copyright 1993, 1994, Silicon Graphics, Inc.
  ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
  Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for
  any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
  copyright notice appear in all copies and that both the copyright notice
  and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that
  the name of Silicon Graphics, Inc. not be used in advertising
  or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific,
  written prior permission.
 
  THE MATERIAL EMBODIED ON THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS"
  AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE,
  INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  IN NO EVENT SHALL SILICON
  GRAPHICS, INC.  BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANYONE ELSE FOR ANY DIRECT,
  SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY
  KIND, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION,
  LOSS OF PROFIT, LOSS OF USE, SAVINGS OR REVENUE, OR THE CLAIMS OF
  THIRD PARTIES, WHETHER OR NOT SILICON GRAPHICS, INC.  HAS BEEN
  ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSS, HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
  ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
  POSSESSION, USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
 
  US Government Users Restricted Rights
  Use, duplication, or disclosure by the Government is subject to
  restrictions set forth in FAR 52.227.19(c)(2) or subparagraph
  (c)(1)(ii) of the Rights in Technical Data and Computer Software
  clause at DFARS 252.227-7013 and/or in similar or successor
  clauses in the FAR or the DOD or NASA FAR Supplement.
  Unpublished-- rights reserved under the copyright laws of the
  United States.  Contractor/manufacturer is Silicon Graphics,
  Inc., 2011 N.  Shoreline Blvd., Mountain View, CA 94039-7311.
 
  OpenGL(TM) is a trademark of Silicon Graphics, Inc.

cmd/smyrna/arcball.[ch]
  Copyright (c) 1999-2009 Tatewake.com 

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
  THE SOFTWARE.

cmd/smyrna/md5.[ch]
  Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 2002 Aladdin Enterprises.  All rights reserved.

  This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
  warranty.  In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages
  arising from the use of this software.

  Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
  including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
  freely, subject to the following restrictions:

  1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
     claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software
     in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
     appreciated but is not required.
  2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
     misrepresented as being the original software.
  3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

contrib/dirgraph
  (C) Copyright 2001 Diomidis Spinellis.
 
  Permission to use, copy, and distribute this software and its
  documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
  provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
  both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
  supporting documentation.
  
  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
  WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
 
contrib/dotmcl.pl
  Copyright: Vladimir Alexiev <vladimir@worklogic.com>

contrib/gprof2dot.awk
  Copyright: Stephen C. North <north@research.att.com>

contrib/java-dot
  Copyright: Florian Liekweg <liekweg@ipd.info.uni-karlsruhe.de>

contrib/lefty-grace
  Copyright: Robert M. Grace <rgrace@draper.com>

contrib/prune
  Copyright: Marcus Harnisch <marcus.harnisch@gmx.net>

contrib/webdot.cgi
  Copyright: John Linderman <jpl@research.att.com>

lib/rbtree
  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that neither the name of Emin
  Martinian nor the names of any contributors are be used to endorse or
  promote products derived from this software without specific prior
  written permission.

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
  "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
  LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
  A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
  OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
  SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
  LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
  DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
  THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
  (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
  OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

lib/gvc/regex_win32.[ch]
  NOTE: These are only linked into the Windows build, so doesn't affect Debian.
  This is fortunate, because the LGPL is not compatible with the CPL!

  Copyright (C) 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

  This file is part of the GNU C Library.  Its master source is NOT part of
  the C library, however.  The master source lives in /gd/gnu/lib.

  The GNU C Library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
  modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as
  published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the
  License, or (at your option) any later version.

  The GNU C Library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
  Library General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
  License along with the GNU C Library; see the file COPYING.LIB.
  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

On Debian systems, the full text of the LGPL is also available at
/usr/share/common-licenses/LGPL-3

lib/vpsc/pairingheap
  Copyright (C) 2005 Mark Allen Weiss, Tim Dwyer <tgdwyer@gmail.com>
 
Files generated by Flex/Bison: Distributed under CPL (via special exception)
  Copyright (C) 1984, 1989, 1990, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
  any later version.

  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  GNU General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with this program; if not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

  As a special exception, when this file is copied by Bison into a
  Bison output file, you may use that output file without restriction.
  This special exception was added by the Free Software Foundation
  in version 1.24 of Bison.

Files related to Autoconf: Distributed under CPL (via special exception)
  Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001
  Free Software Foundation, Inc.
  Originally by Gordon Matzigkeit <gord@gnu.ai.mit.edu>, 1996
 
  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
  (at your option) any later version.
 
  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
  WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
  General Public License for more details.
 
  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with this program; if not, see see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
 
  As a special exception to the GNU General Public License, if you
  distribute this file as part of a program that contains a
  configuration script generated by Autoconf, you may include it under
  the same distribution terms that you use for the rest of that program.

On Debian systems, the full text of the GPL is also available at
/usr/share/common-licenses/GPL-2

lib/gd
  Portions copyright 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001,
  2002 by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. Funded under Grant
  P41-RR02188 by the National Institutes of Health. 

  Portions copyright 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002 by
  Boutell.Com, Inc. 

  Portions relating to GD2 format copyright 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002
  Philip Warner.
     
  Portions relating to PNG copyright 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002 Greg
  Roelofs. 

  Portions relating to gdttf.c copyright 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002 John  
  Ellson (ellson@lucent.com).
   
  Portions relating to gdft.c copyright 2001, 2002 John Ellson  
  (ellson@lucent.com).  

  Portions relating to JPEG and to color quantization copyright 2000,
  2001, 2002, Doug Becker and copyright (C) 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997,
  1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, Thomas G. Lane. This software is
  based in part on the work of the Independent JPEG Group. See the
  file README-JPEG.TXT for more information.

  Portions relating to WBMP copyright 2000, 2001, 2002 Maurice
  Szmurlo and Johan Van den Brande.

  Permission has been granted to copy, distribute and modify gd in
  any context without fee, including a commercial application,
  provided that this notice is present in user-accessible supporting
  documentation.

  This does not affect your ownership of the derived work itself, and 
  the intent is to assure proper credit for the authors of gd, not to
  interfere with your productive use of gd. If you have questions,
  ask. "Derived works" includes all programs that utilize the   
  library. Credit must be given in user-accessible documentation.

  This software is provided "AS IS." The copyright holders disclaim  
  all warranties, either express or implied, including but not
  limited to implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a
  particular purpose, with respect to this code and accompanying  
  documentation.

  Although their code does not appear in gd, the authors wish to thank
  David Koblas, David Rowley, and Hutchison Avenue Software Corporation
  for their prior contributions.

From README-JPEG.TXT ...

  The authors make NO WARRANTY or representation, either express or implied,
  with respect to this software, its quality, accuracy, merchantability, or
  fitness for a particular purpose.  This software is provided "AS IS", and you,
  its user, assume the entire risk as to its quality and accuracy.

  This software is copyright (C) 1991-1998, Thomas G. Lane.
  All Rights Reserved except as specified below.

  Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
  software (or portions thereof) for any purpose, without fee, subject to these
  conditions:
  (1) If any part of the source code for this software is distributed, then this
  README file must be included, with this copyright and no-warranty notice
  unaltered; and any additions, deletions, or changes to the original files
  must be clearly indicated in accompanying documentation.
  (2) If only executable code is distributed, then the accompanying
  documentation must state that "this software is based in part on the work of
  the Independent JPEG Group".
  (3) Permission for use of this software is granted only if the user accepts
  full responsibility for any undesirable consequences; the authors accept
  NO LIABILITY for damages of any kind.

  These conditions apply to any software derived from or based on the IJG code,
  not just to the unmodified library.  If you use our work, you ought to
  acknowledge us.

  Permission is NOT granted for the use of any IJG author's name or company name
  in advertising or publicity relating to this software or products derived from
  it.  This software may be referred to only as "the Independent JPEG Group's
  software".

  We specifically permit and encourage the use of this software as the basis of
  commercial products, provided that all warranty or liability claims are
  assumed by the product vendor.

  The Unix configuration script "configure" was produced with GNU Autoconf.
  It is copyright by the Free Software Foundation but is freely distributable.
  The same holds for its supporting scripts (config.guess, config.sub,
  ltconfig, ltmain.sh).  Another support script, install-sh, is copyright
  by M.I.T. but is also freely distributable.

  It appears that the arithmetic coding option of the JPEG spec is covered by
  patents owned by IBM, AT&T, and Mitsubishi.  Hence arithmetic coding cannot
  legally be used without obtaining one or more licenses.  For this reason,
  support for arithmetic coding has been removed from the free JPEG software.
  (Since arithmetic coding provides only a marginal gain over the unpatented
  Huffman mode, it is unlikely that very many implementations will support it.)
  So far as we are aware, there are no patent restrictions on the remaining
  code.

  The IJG distribution formerly included code to read and write GIF files.
  To avoid entanglement with the Unisys LZW patent, GIF reading support has
  been removed altogether, and the GIF writer has been simplified to produce
  "uncompressed GIFs".  This technique does not use the LZW algorithm; the
  resulting GIF files are larger than usual, but are readable by all standard
  GIF decoders.

  We are required to state that
      "The Graphics Interchange Format(c) is the Copyright property of
      CompuServe Incorporated.  GIF(sm) is a Service Mark property of
      CompuServe Incorporated."

lib/gd/gd_wbmp.c

  Copyright (C) Johan Van den Brande (johan@vandenbrande.com),
                Maurice Szmurlo (Maurice.Szmurlo@info.unicaen.fr)

  Parts of this code are inspired by  'pbmtowbmp.c' and 'wbmptopbm.c' by
  Terje Sannum <terje@looplab.com>.

  Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
  documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
  that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
  copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
  documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
  implied warranty.

lib/gd/gdxpm.c
   Caolan.McNamara@ul.ie http://www.csn.ul.ie/~caolan

lib/gd/gd_gif_out.c header 
  Based on GIFENCOD by David Rowley <mgardi@watdscu.waterloo.edu>

  Modified by Marcel Wijkstra <wijkstra@fwi.uva.nl>

  Copyright (C) 1989 by Jef Poskanzer.

  Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
  documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
  that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
  copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
  documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
  implied warranty.

  The Graphics Interchange Format(c) is the Copyright property of
  CompuServe Incorporated.  GIF(sm) is a Service Mark property of
  CompuServe Incorporated.

lib/gd/gd_security.c
  Written 2004, Phil Knirsch.
  Based on netpbm fixes by Alan Cox.

lib/gd/jisx0208.h
  This file was derived from "src/VF_Ftype.c" in VFlib2-2.24.2
  by Dr. Kakugawa

tclpkg/gv/demo/modgraph.py
  author: Michael Hohn <mhhohn@lbl.gov>
  based on: modgraph.tcl by John Ellson <ellson@research.att.com>

tclpkg/gv/demo/modgraph.rb
  based on: modgraph.tcl by:  John Ellson <ellson@research.att.com>
  ruby adaptation by:         Patricio Ros <patricioros.dev@gmail.com>
  additional fixes:           Ralph Mueller <ralf.mueller@zmaw.de>

----

The Debian packaging was started by Stephen M Moraco <stephen@debian.org> and
then was taken over in late 2006 by Cyril Brulebois, placing his work under the
same terms as graphviz itself.
 © 2006-2009, Cyril Brulebois <cyril.brulebois@enst-bretagne.fr>

