content/cumulus-netq-49/Installation-Management/Install-NetQ/Install-NetQ-System.md, before:

---
title: Install the NetQ System
author: NVIDIA
weight: 200
toc: 3
---
You can install NetQ either on your premises or as a remote, cloud solution. If you are unsure which option is best for your network, refer to {{<link title="Before You Install" text="Before You Install">}}.

## On-Premises

| Deployment Type | Server Arrangement | Hypervisor | Requirements & Installation |
| --- | --- | --- | :---: |
| On-premises | Single server | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for a Single On-premises Server" text="Start install" >}} |
| On-premises | Single server | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for a Single On-premises Server" text="Start install" >}} |
| On-premises | High availability server cluster | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for an On-premises HA Server Cluster" text="Start install" >}} |
| On-premises | High availability server cluster | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for an On-premises HA Server Cluster" text="Start install" >}} |

## Cloud (On-Premises Telemetry Aggregator)

| Deployment Type | Server Arrangement | Hypervisor | Requirements & Installation |
| --- | --- | --- | :---: |
| OPTA | Single server | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for a Single Cloud Server" text="Start install" >}} |
| OPTA | Single server | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for a Single Cloud Server" text="Start install" >}} |
| OPTA | High availability server cluster | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for a Cloud HA Server Cluster" text="Start install" >}} |
| OPTA | High availability server cluster | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for a Cloud HA Server Cluster" text="Start install" >}} |

Commit message:

removed on-prem cluster support

content/cumulus-netq-49/Installation-Management/Install-NetQ/Install-NetQ-System.md, after:

---
title: Install the NetQ System
author: NVIDIA
weight: 200
toc: 3
---
You can install NetQ either on your premises or as a remote, cloud solution. If you are unsure which option is best for your network, refer to {{<link title="Before You Install" text="Before You Install">}}.

## On-Premises

| Deployment Type | Server Arrangement | Hypervisor | Requirements & Installation |
| --- | --- | --- | :---: |
| On-premises | Single server | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for a Single On-premises Server" text="Start install" >}} |
| On-premises | Single server | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for a Single On-premises Server" text="Start install" >}} |
<!--remove deployments for 4.9
| On-premises | High availability server cluster | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for an On-premises HA Server Cluster" text="Start install" >}} |
| On-premises | High availability server cluster | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for an On-premises HA Server Cluster" text="Start install" >}} |
-->
{{%notice info%}}
NetQ 4.9 does not support on-premises, cluster deployments.
{{%/notice%}}
## Cloud (On-Premises Telemetry Aggregator)

| Deployment Type | Server Arrangement | Hypervisor | Requirements & Installation |
| --- | --- | --- | :---: |
| OPTA | Single server | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for a Single Cloud Server" text="Start install" >}} |
| OPTA | Single server | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for a Single Cloud Server" text="Start install" >}} |
| OPTA | High availability server cluster | KVM | {{<link title="Set Up Your KVM Virtual Machine for a Cloud HA Server Cluster" text="Start install" >}} |
| OPTA | High availability server cluster | VMware | {{<link title="Set Up Your VMware Virtual Machine for a Cloud HA Server Cluster" text="Start install" >}} |
