---
title: 802.1X Interfaces
author: Cumulus Networks
weight: 97
aliases:
 - /display/CL330/802.1X+Interfaces
 - /pages/viewpage.action?pageId=5866410
pageID: 5866410
product: Cumulus Linux
version: 3.3.0
imgData: cumulus-linux-330
siteSlug: cumulus-linux-330
---
The [IEEE 802.1X protocol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_802.1X)
provides a method of authenticating a client (called a *supplicant*)
over wired media. It also provides access for individual MAC addresses
on a switch (called the *authenticator*) once those MAC addresses have
been authenticated by an authentication server — typically a RADIUS
(Remote Authentication Dial In User Service, defined by
[RFC 2865](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2865)) server.

A Cumulus Linux switch acts as an intermediary between the clients
connected to the wired ports and the authentication server, which is
reachable over the existing network. EAPOL (Extensible Authentication
Protocol (EAP) over LAN — EtherType value of 0x888E, defined by
[RFC 3748](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3748)) operates on top of the
data link layer; it is used by the switch to communicate with
supplicants connected to the switch ports.

Cumulus Linux implements 802.1X through the Debian `hostapd` package,
which has been modified to provide the PAE (port access entity).

{{% imgOld 0 %}}

## <span>Supported Features and Limitations</span>

  - This feature is supported on 1G platforms only.

  - The protocol is supported on physical interfaces only
    (bridged/access only and routed interfaces) — such as swp1 or
    swp2s0; these interfaces cannot be part of a bond.

  - Enabling or disabling 802.1X capability on ports results in
    `hostapd` reloading. Existing authorized sessions will not be reset.

  - MAC authentication bypass (MAB) and parking VLAN require a bridge
    access port interface.

  - Changing any of the following RADIUS parameters restarts `hostapd`,
    which forces existing, authorized users to re-authenticate:
    
      - The RADIUS server IP address, shared secret, authentication port
        or accounting port
    
      - Parking VLAN ID
    
      - MAB activation delay
    
      - EAP reauthentication period
    
      - Removing all 802.1X interfaces
        
        {{%notice note%}}
        
        Changing the interface dot1x, dot1x mab, or dot1x parking-vlan
        settings do not reset existing authorized user ports.
        
        {{%/notice%}}

  - Up to three RADIUS servers can be configured, for failover purposes.
    
    {{%notice note%}}
    
    Do not use a Cumulus Linux switch as the RADIUS server.
    
    {{%/notice%}}

  - This has been tested with only a few `wpa_supplicant` (Debian) and
    Windows7 supplicants.

  - RADIUS authentication is supported with FreeRadius and Cisco ACS.

  - Supports simple login/password, PEAP/MSCHAPv2 (Win7) and EAP-TLS
    (Debian).

## <span>Configuring 802.1X Interfaces</span>

[NCLU](/version/cumulus-linux-330/System_Configuration/Network_Command_Line_Utility)
handles all the configuration of 802.1X interfaces, updating `hostapd`
and other components so you don't have to manually modify configuration
files. All the interfaces share the same RADIUS server settings.

The 802.1X-specific settings are:

  - **accounting-port**: RADIUS accounting parameters, which defaults to
    *1813*.

  - **authentication-port**: RADIUS authentication port, which defaults
    to *1812*.

  - **server-ip**: RADIUS Server IPv4 or IPv6 address, which has no
    default, but is required.

  - **shared-secret**: RADIUS shared secret, which has no default, but
    is required.

Make sure you configure the RADIUS server before the interfaces. [See
below](#src-5866410_id-802.1XInterfaces-server_config) for details.

1.  Create a simple interface bridge configuration on the switch and add
    the switch ports that are members of the bridge. You can use glob
    syntax to add a range of interfaces. The MAB and parking VLAN
    configurations require interfaces to be bridge access ports.
    
        cumulus@switch:~$ net add bridge bridge ports swp1-4

2.  Configure the settings for the 802.1X RADIUS server, including its
    IP address and shared secret:
    
        cumulus@switch:~$ net add dot1x radius server-ip 127.0.0.1
        cumulus@switch:~$ net add dot1x radius shared-secret testing123

3.  Enable 802.1X on interfaces, then review and commit the new
    configuration:
    
        cumulus@switch:~$ net add interface swp1-4 dot1x 
        cumulus@switch:~$ net pending
        cumulus@switch:~$ net commit

4.  Verify the 802.1X configuration, showing the configuration and its
    status:
    
        cumulus@switch:~$ net show configuration commands | grep dot1x
        dot1x radius server-ip 127.0.0.1
        dot1x radius authentication-port 1812
        dot1x radius accounting-port 1813
        dot1x radius shared-secret testing123
        interface swp2,swp3,swp1,swp4 dot1x
         
        cumulus@switch:~$ 
        cumulus@switch:~$ net show dot1x status
        IEEE802.1X Enabled Status: enabled
        IEEE802.1X Active Status: active

### <span>Configuring Accounting and Authentication Ports</span>

You can configure the accounting and authentication ports in Cumulus
Linux. The default values are *1813* for the accounting port and *1812*
for the authentication port.

You can also change the reauthentication period for Extensible
Authentication Protocol (EAP). The period defaults to *0* (no
re-authentication is performed by the switch).

To use different ports, do the following:

    cumulus@switch:~$ net add dot1x radius authentication-port 2812
    cumulus@switch:~$ net add dot1x radius accounting-port 2813
    cumulus@switch:~$ net add dot1x eap-reauth-period 86400
    cumulus@switch:~$ net pending
    cumulus@switch:~$ net commit

### <span>Configuring MAC Authentication Bypass</span>

MAC authentication bypass (MAB) enables bridge ports to allow devices to
bypass authentication based on their MAC address. This is useful for
devices that do not support PAE, such as printers or phones. You can
change the MAB activation delay from the default of 30 seconds, but the
delay must be between 5 and 30 seconds. The switch port must be part of
bridge named *bridge*.

You must configure MAB on the RADIUS server.

To enable a bridge port for MAB and to change the MAB activation delay,
do the following on the RADIUS client (that is, the Cumulus Linux
switch):

    cumulus@switch:~$ net add dot1x mab-activation-delay 20
    cumulus@switch:~$ net add interface swp1 dot1x mab
    cumulus@switch:~$ net pending
    cumulus@switch:~$ net commit

### <span>Configuring a Parking VLAN</span>

If a non-authorized supplicant tries to communicate with the switch, you
can route traffic from that device to a different VLAN and associate
that VLAN with one of the switch ports. The switch port must be part of
bridge named *bridge*.

    cumulus@switch:~$ net add dot1x parking-vlan-id 777
    cumulus@switch:~$ net add interface swp1 dot1x parking-vlan
    cumulus@switch:~$ net pending
    cumulus@switch:~$ net commit

## <span>Verifying Connections from Linux Supplicants</span>

To test that a supplicant (client) can communicate with the Cumulus
Linux Authenticator switch, run the following command from the
supplicant:

    root@host1:/home/cumulus# wpa_supplicant -c /etc/wpa_supplicant.conf -D wired -i swp1
    Successfully initialized wpa_supplicant
    swp1: Associated with 01:80:c2:00:00:03
    swp1: CTRL-EVENT-EAP-STARTED EAP authentication started
    swp1: CTRL-EVENT-EAP-PROPOSED-METHOD vendor=0 method=4
    swp1: CTRL-EVENT-EAP-METHOD EAP vendor 0 method 4 (MD5) selected
    swp1: CTRL-EVENT-EAP-SUCCESS EAP authentication completed successfully
    swp1: CTRL-EVENT-CONNECTED - Connection to 01:80:c2:00:00:03 compl

Or from another supplicant:

    root@host2:/home/cumulus# wpa_supplicant -c /etc/wpa_supplicant.conf -D wired -i swp1
    Successfully initialized wpa_supplicant
    swp1: Associated with 01:80:c2:00:00:03
    swp1: CTRL-EVENT-EAP-STARTED EAP authentication started
    swp1: CTRL-EVENT-EAP-PROPOSED-METHOD vendor=0 method=4
    swp1: CTRL-EVENT-EAP-METHOD EAP vendor 0 method 4 (MD5) selected
    swp1: CTRL-EVENT-EAP-SUCCESS EAP authentication completed successfully
    swp1: CTRL-EVENT-CONNECTED - Connection to 01:80:c2:00:00:03 comp

## <span>Troubleshooting</span>

To check connectivity between two supplicants, ping one host from the
other:

    root@host1:/home/cumulus# ping 198.150.0.2
    PING 11.0.0.2 (11.0.0.2) 56(84) bytes of data.
    64 bytes from 11.0.0.2: icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=0.604 ms
    64 bytes from 11.0.0.2: icmp_seq=2 ttl=64 time=0.552 ms
    ^C
    --- 11.0.0.2 ping statistics ---
    2 packets transmitted, 2 received, 0% packet loss, time 1000ms
    rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.552/0.578/0

You can run `net show dot1x` with the following options for more data:

  - `json`: Prints the command output in JSON format.

  - `macs`: Displays MAC address information.

  - `port-details`: Shows counters from the IEEE8021-PAE-MIB for ports.

  - `radius-details`: Shows counters from the RADIUS-CLIENT MIB (RFC
    2618) for ports.

  - `status`: Displays the status of the daemon.

To check to see which MAC addresses have been authorized by RADIUS:

    cumulus@switch:~$ net show dot1x macs
    Interface       Attribute   Value
    -----------     -------------  -----------------
    swp1            MAC Addresses  00:02:00:00:00:01
    swp2            No Data
    swp3            No Data
    swp4            No Data

To check the port detail counters:

    cumulus@switch:~$ net show dot1x port-details 
     
    Interface    Attribute                                  Value
    -----------  ----------------------------------------   ---------
    swp1         Mac Addresses                              00:02:00:00:00:01
                 authMultiSessionId                         96703ADC82D77DF2
                 connected_time                             182
                 dot1xAuthEapolFramesRx                     3
                 dot1xAuthEapolFramesTx                     3
                 dot1xAuthEapolLogoffFramesRx               0
                 dot1xAuthEapolReqFramesTx                  2
                 dot1xAuthEapolReqIdFramesTx                1
                 dot1xAuthEapolRespFramesRx                 2
                 dot1xAuthEapolRespIdFramesRx               1
                 dot1xAuthEapolStartFramesRx                1
                 dot1xAuthInvalidEapolFramesRx              0
                 dot1xAuthLastEapolFrameSource              00:02:00:00:00:01
                 dot1xAuthLastEapolFrameVersion             2
                 dot1xAuthPaeState                          5
                 dot1xAuthQuietPeriod                       60
                 dot1xAuthReAuthEnabled                     FALSE
                 dot1xAuthReAuthPeriod                      0
                 dot1xAuthServerTimeout                     30
                 dot1xAuthSessionAuthenticMethod            1
                 dot1xAuthSessionId                         1B50FE8939FD9F5E
                 dot1xAuthSessionTerminateCause             999
                 dot1xAuthSessionTime                       182
                 dot1xAuthSessionUserName                   testing
                 dot1xPaePortProtocolVersion                2
                 last_eap_type_as                           4 (MD5)
                 last_eap_type_sta                          4 (MD5)                      

To check RADIUS counters:

    cumulus@switch:~$ net show dot1x radius-details swp1
     
    Interface    Attribute                                  Value
    -----------  ----------------------------------------   ---------
    swp1         radiusAccClientRequests                    1
                 radiusAccClientResponses                   1
                 radiusAccClientServerPortNumber            1813
                 radiusAccServerAddress                     127.0.0.1
                 radiusAuthClientAccessAccepts              1
                 radiusAuthClientAccessChallenges           1
                 radiusAuthClientAccessRejects              0
                 radiusAuthClientAccessRequests             0
                 radiusAuthClientServerPortNumber           1812
                 radiusAuthServerAddress                    127.0.0.1
                 radiusAuthServerIndex                      1
     
    ...

You can also check logging with journalctl:

    cumulus@switch-01:~$ sudo journalctl –f –u hostapd
    Apr 19 22:17:11 switch-01 hostapd[12462]: swp1: interface state UNINITIALIZED->ENABLED
    Apr 19 22:17:11 switch-01 hostapd[12462]: swp1: AP-ENABLED
    Apr 19 22:17:11 switch-01 hostapd[12462]: Reading rule file /etc/cumulus/acl/policy.d/00control_ps ...
    Apr 19 22:17:11 switch-01 hostapd[12462]: Processing rules in file /etc/cumulus/acl/policy.d/00...
    Apr 19 22:17:12 switch-01 hostapd[12462]: Reading rule file /etc/cumulus/acl/policy.d/100_dot1x...
    Apr 19 22:17:12 switch-01 hostapd[12462]: Processing rules in file /etc/cumulus/acl/policy.d/ ..
    Apr 19 22:17:12 switch-01 hostapd[12462]: Reading rule file /etc/cumulus/acl/policy.d/99control
    Apr 19 22:17:12 switch-01 hostapd[12462]: Processing rules in file /etc/cumulus/acl/policy.d/99
    Apr 19 22:17:12 switch-01 hostapd[12462]: Installing acl policy
    Apr 19 22:17:12 switch-01 hostapd[12462]: done. 

### <span>Advanced Troubleshooting</span>

More advanced troubleshooting can be accomplished with the following
commands.

You can increase the debug level in `hostapd` by copying over the
`hostapd` service file, then adding *-d*, *-dd* or *-ddd* to the
`ExecStart` line in the `hostapd.service` file:

    cumulus@switch:~$ cp  /lib/systemd/system/hostapd.service /etc/systemd/system/hostapd.service
    cumulus@switch:~$ sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/hostapd.service
    ...
     
    ExecStart=/usr/sbin/hostapd –ddd –c /etc/hostapd.conf
     
    ...

You can watch debugs with `journalctl` as supplicants attempt to
connect:

    cumulus@switch:~$ sudo journalctl -n 1000  -u hostapd      # see the last 1000 lines of hostapd debug logging
    cumulus@switch:~$ sudo journalctl -f -u hostapd            # continuous tail of the hostapd daemon debug logging

You can check ACL rules in
`/etc/cumulus/acl/policy.d/100_dot1x_swpX.rules` before and after a
supplicant attempts to authenticate:

    cumulus@switch:~$ sudo cl-acltool -L eb | grep swpXX
    cumulus@switch:~$ sudo cl-netstat | grep swpXX           # look at interface counters

You can check `tc` rules in `/var/lib/hostapd/acl/tc_swpX.rules` with:

    cumulus@switch:~$ sudo tc -s filter show dev swpXX parent 1:
    cumulus@switch:~$ sudo tc -s filter show dev swpXX parent ffff:

## <span id="src-5866410_id-802.1XInterfaces-server_config" class="confluence-anchor-link"></span><span>Configuring the RADIUS Server</span>

If you haven't done so already, you need to configure the RADIUS server
— preferably not on the Cumulus Linux switch — before configuring any
interfaces for 802.1X.

To add a popular and freely available RADIUS server called FreeRADIUS on
a Debian workstation, do the following:

    root@radius:~# apt-get update
    root@radius:~# apt-get install freeradius-utils freeradius-common

Once installed and configured, the FreeRADIUS server can serve Cumulus
Linux running `hostapd` as a RADIUS client.

For more information, see the [FreeRADIUS
documentation](http://freeradius.org/doc/).
