content/cumulus-linux-59/System-Configuration/Date-and-Time/Network-Time-Protocol-NTP.md, before:

---
title: Network Time Protocol - NTP
author: NVIDIA
weight: 124
toc: 3
---
The `ntpd` daemon running on the switch implements the NTP protocol. It synchronizes the system time with time servers in the `/etc/ntp.conf` file. The `ntpd` daemon starts at boot by default.

{{%notice note%}}
If you intend to run this service within a {{<link url="Virtual-Routing-and-Forwarding-VRF" text="VRF">}}, including the {{<link url="Management-VRF" text="management VRF">}}, follow {{<link url="Management-VRF#run-services-within-the-management-vrf" text="these steps">}} to configure the service.
{{%/notice%}}

## Configure NTP Servers

The default NTP configuration includes the following servers, which are in the `/etc/ntp.conf` file:

- server 0.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
- server 1.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
- server 2.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
- server 3.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst

To add the NTP servers you want to use, run the following commands. Include the `iburst` option to increase the sync speed.

{{< tabs "TabID106 ">}}
{{< tab "NVUE Commands ">}}

The NVUE command requires a VRF. The following command adds the NTP servers in the default VRF.

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set service ntp default server 4.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst on
cumulus@switch:~$ nv config apply
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "Linux Commands ">}}

Edit the `/etc/ntp.conf` file to add or update NTP server information:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo nano /etc/ntp.conf
# pool.ntp.org maps to about 1000 low-stratum NTP servers.  Your server will
# pick a different set every time it starts up.  Please consider joining the
# pool: <http://www.pool.ntp.org/join.html>
server 0.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
server 1.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
server 2.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
server 3.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
server 4.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{%notice note%}}
To set the initial date and time with NTP before starting the `ntpd` daemon, run the `ntpd -q` command. Be aware that `ntpd -q` can hang if the time servers are not reachable.
{{%/notice%}}

To verify that `ntpd` is running on the system:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ ps -ef | grep ntp
ntp       4074     1  0 Jun20 ?        00:00:33 /usr/sbin/ntpd -p /var/run/ntpd.pid -g -u 101:102
```

To check the NTP peer status:

{{< tabs "TabID166 ">}}
{{< tab "NVUE Commands ">}}

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv show service ntp default server
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "Linux Commands ">}}

```
cumulus@switch:~$ ntpq -p
      remote           refid      st t when poll reach   delay   offset  jitter
==============================================================================
+ec2-34-225-6-20 129.6.15.30      2 u   73 1024  377   70.414   -2.414   4.110
+lax1.m-d.net    132.163.96.1     2 u   69 1024  377   11.676    0.155   2.736
*69.195.159.158  199.102.46.72    2 u  133 1024  377   48.047   -0.457   1.856
-2.time.dbsinet. 198.60.22.240    2 u 1057 1024  377   63.973    2.182   2.692
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

The following example commands remove some of the default NTP servers:

{{< tabs "TabID204 ">}}
{{< tab "NVUE Commands ">}}

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv unset service ntp default server 0.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org
cumulus@switch:~$ nv unset service ntp default server 1.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org
cumulus@switch:~$ nv unset service ntp default server 2.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org
cumulus@switch:~$ nv unset service ntp default server 3.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org
cumulus@switch:~$ nv config apply
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "Linux Commands ">}}

Edit the `/etc/ntp.conf` file to delete NTP servers.

```
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo nano /etc/ntp.conf
...
# pool.ntp.org maps to about 1000 low-stratum NTP servers.  Your server will
# pick a different set every time it starts up.  Please consider joining the
# pool: <http://www.pool.ntp.org/join.html>
server 4.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
...
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Specify the NTP Source Interface

By default, the source interface that NTP uses is eth0. The following example command configures the NTP source interface to be swp10.

{{< tabs "TabID243 ">}}
{{< tab "NVUE Commands ">}}

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set service ntp default listen swp10
cumulus@switch:~$ nv config apply
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "Linux Commands ">}}

Edit the `/etc/ntp.conf` file and modify the entry under the `Specify interfaces` comment.

```
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo nano /etc/ntp.conf
...
# Specify interfaces
interface listen swp10
...
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Use NTP in a DHCP Environment

You can use DHCP to specify your NTP servers. Ensure that the DHCP-generated configuration file `/run/ntp.conf.dhcp` exists. The `/etc/dhcp/dhclient-exit-hooks.d/ntp` script generates this file, which is a copy of the default `/etc/ntp.conf` file with a modified server list from the DHCP server. If this file does not exist and you plan on using DHCP in the future, you can copy your current `/etc/ntp.conf` file to the location of the DHCP file.

To use DHCP to specify your NTP servers, run the `sudo -E systemctl edit ntp.service` command and add the `ExecStart=` line:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo -E systemctl edit ntp.service
[Service]
ExecStart=
ExecStart=/usr/sbin/ntpd -n -u ntp:ntp -g -c /run/ntp.conf.dhcp
```

{{%notice note%}}
The `sudo -E systemctl edit ntp.service` command always updates the base `ntp.service` even if you use `ntp@mgmt.service`. The `ntp@mgmt.service` is re-generated automatically.
{{%/notice%}}

To validate that your configuration, run these commands:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo systemctl restart ntp
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo systemctl status -n0 ntp.service
```

If the state is not *Active*, or the alternate configuration file does not appear in the `ntp` command line, it is likely that you made a configuration mistake. Correct the mistake and rerun the commands above to verify.

## Configure NTP with Authorization Keys

For added security, you can configure NTP to use authorization keys.

### Configure the NTP Server

1. Create a `.keys` file, such as `/etc/ntp.keys`. Specify a key identifier (a number between 1 and 65535), an encryption method (M for MD5), and the password. The following provides an example:

    ```
    #
    # PLEASE DO NOT USE THE DEFAULT VALUES HERE.
    #
    #65535  M  akey
    #1      M  pass

    1  M  CumulusLinux!
    ```

2. In the `/etc/ntp.conf` file, add a pointer to the `/etc/ntp.keys` file you created above and specify the key identifier. For example:

    ```
    keys /etc/ntp/ntp.keys
    trustedkey 1
    controlkey 1
    requestkey 1
    ```

3. Restart NTP with the `sudo systemctl restart ntp` command.

### Configure the NTP Client

The NTP client is the Cumulus Linux switch.

1. Create the same `.keys` file you created on the NTP server (`/etc/ntp.keys`). For example:

    ```
    cumulus@switch:~$  sudo nano /etc/ntp.keys
    #
    # DO NOT USE THE DEFAULT VALUES HERE.
    #
    #65535  M  akey
    #1      M  pass

    1  M  CumulusLinux!
    ```

2. Edit the `/etc/ntp.conf` file to specify the server you want to use, the key identifier, and a pointer to the `/etc/ntp.keys` file you created in step 1. For example:

    ```
    cumulus@switch:~$ sudo nano /etc/ntp.conf
    ...
    # You do need to talk to an NTP server or two (or three).
    #pool ntp.your-provider.example
    # OR
    #server ntp.your-provider.example

    # pool.ntp.org maps to about 1000 low-stratum NTP servers.  Your server will
    # pick a different set every time it starts up.  Please consider joining the
    # pool: <http://www.pool.ntp.org/join.html>
    #server 0.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
    #server 1.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
    #server 2.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
    #server 3.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
    server 10.50.23.121 key 1

    #keys
    keys /etc/ntp.keys
    trustedkey 1
    controlkey 1
    requestkey 1
    ...
    ```

3. Restart NTP in the active VRF (default or management). For example:

    ```
    cumulus@switch:~$ systemctl restart ntp@mgmt.service
    ```

4. Wait a few minutes, then run the `ntpq -c as` command to verify the configuration:

    ```
    cumulus@switch:~$ ntpq -c as

    ind assid status  conf reach auth condition  last_event cnt
    ===========================================================
      1 40828  f014   yes   yes   ok     reject   reachable  1
    ```

    After a successful authorization, you see the following command output:

    ```
    cumulus@switch:~$ ntpq -c as

    ind assid status  conf reach auth condition  last_event cnt
    ===========================================================
      1 40828  f61a   yes   yes   ok   sys.peer    sys_peer  1
    ```

## Considerations

NTP in Cumulus Linux uses the `/usr/share/zoneinfo/leap-seconds.list` file, which expires periodically and results in generated log messages about the expiration. When the file expires, update it from {{<exlink url="https://www.ietf.org/timezones/data/leap-seconds.list" text="https://www.ietf.org/timezones/data/leap-seconds.list">}} or upgrade the `tzdata` package to the newest version.

## Related Information

- {{<exlink url="http://www.ntp.org" text="NTP website">}}
- {{<exlink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_Time_Protocol" text="Wikipedia - Network Time Protocol">}}
- {{<exlink url="http://wiki.debian.org/NTP" text="Debian wiki - NTP">}}

Commit message:

change etc/ntp.conf to  etc/ntpsec/ntp.conf and ntp.service to ntpsec.service

content/cumulus-linux-59/System-Configuration/Date-and-Time/Network-Time-Protocol-NTP.md, after:

---
title: Network Time Protocol - NTP
author: NVIDIA
weight: 124
toc: 3
---
The `ntpd` daemon running on the switch implements the NTP protocol. It synchronizes the system time with time servers in the `/etc/ntpsec/ntp.conf` file. The `ntpd` daemon starts at boot by default.

{{%notice note%}}
If you intend to run this service within a {{<link url="Virtual-Routing-and-Forwarding-VRF" text="VRF">}}, including the {{<link url="Management-VRF" text="management VRF">}}, follow {{<link url="Management-VRF#run-services-within-the-management-vrf" text="these steps">}} to configure the service.
{{%/notice%}}

## Configure NTP Servers

The default NTP configuration includes the following servers, which are in the `/etc/ntpsec/ntp.conf` file:

- server 0.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
- server 1.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
- server 2.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
- server 3.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst

To add the NTP servers you want to use, run the following commands. Include the `iburst` option to increase the sync speed.

{{< tabs "TabID106 ">}}
{{< tab "NVUE Commands ">}}

The NVUE command requires a VRF. The following command adds the NTP servers in the default VRF.

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set service ntp default server 4.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst on
cumulus@switch:~$ nv config apply
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "Linux Commands ">}}

Edit the `/etc/ntpsec/ntp.conf` file to add or update NTP server information:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo nano /etc/ntpsec/ntp.conf
# pool.ntp.org maps to about 1000 low-stratum NTP servers.  Your server will
# pick a different set every time it starts up.  Please consider joining the
# pool: <http://www.pool.ntp.org/join.html>
server 0.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
server 1.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
server 2.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
server 3.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
server 4.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{%notice note%}}
To set the initial date and time with NTP before starting the `ntpd` daemon, run the `ntpd -q` command. Be aware that `ntpd -q` can hang if the time servers are not reachable.
{{%/notice%}}

To verify that `ntpd` is running on the system:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ ps -ef | grep ntp
ntp       4074     1  0 Jun20 ?        00:00:33 /usr/sbin/ntpd -p /var/run/ntpd.pid -g -u 101:102
```

To check the NTP peer status:

{{< tabs "TabID166 ">}}
{{< tab "NVUE Commands ">}}

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv show service ntp default server
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "Linux Commands ">}}

```
cumulus@switch:~$ ntpq -p
      remote           refid      st t when poll reach   delay   offset  jitter
==============================================================================
+ec2-34-225-6-20 129.6.15.30      2 u   73 1024  377   70.414   -2.414   4.110
+lax1.m-d.net    132.163.96.1     2 u   69 1024  377   11.676    0.155   2.736
*69.195.159.158  199.102.46.72    2 u  133 1024  377   48.047   -0.457   1.856
-2.time.dbsinet. 198.60.22.240    2 u 1057 1024  377   63.973    2.182   2.692
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

The following example commands remove some of the default NTP servers:

{{< tabs "TabID204 ">}}
{{< tab "NVUE Commands ">}}

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv unset service ntp default server 0.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org
cumulus@switch:~$ nv unset service ntp default server 1.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org
cumulus@switch:~$ nv unset service ntp default server 2.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org
cumulus@switch:~$ nv unset service ntp default server 3.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org
cumulus@switch:~$ nv config apply
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "Linux Commands ">}}

Edit the `/etc/ntpsec/ntp.conf` file to delete NTP servers.

```
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo nano /etc/ntpsec/ntp.conf
...
# pool.ntp.org maps to about 1000 low-stratum NTP servers.  Your server will
# pick a different set every time it starts up.  Please consider joining the
# pool: <http://www.pool.ntp.org/join.html>
server 4.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
...
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Specify the NTP Source Interface

By default, the source interface that NTP uses is eth0. The following example command configures the NTP source interface to be swp10.

{{< tabs "TabID243 ">}}
{{< tab "NVUE Commands ">}}

```
cumulus@switch:~$ nv set service ntp default listen swp10
cumulus@switch:~$ nv config apply
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "Linux Commands ">}}

Edit the `/etc/ntpsec/ntp.conf` file and modify the entry under the `Specify interfaces` comment.

```
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo nano /etc/ntpsec/ntp.conf
...
# Specify interfaces
interface listen swp10
...
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Use NTP in a DHCP Environment

You can use DHCP to specify your NTP servers. Ensure that the DHCP-generated configuration file `/run/ntp.conf.dhcp` exists. The `/etc/dhcp/dhclient-exit-hooks.d/ntp` script generates this file, which is a copy of the default `/etc/ntpsec/ntp.conf` file with a modified server list from the DHCP server. If this file does not exist and you plan on using DHCP in the future, you can copy your current `/etc/ntpsec/ntp.conf` file to the location of the DHCP file.

To use DHCP to specify your NTP servers, run the `sudo -E systemctl edit ntpsec.service` command and add the `ExecStart=` line:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo -E systemctl edit ntpsec.service
[Service]
ExecStart=
ExecStart=/usr/sbin/ntpd -n -u ntp:ntp -g -c /run/ntp.conf.dhcp
```

{{%notice note%}}
The `sudo -E systemctl edit ntpsec.service` command always updates the base `ntpsec.service` even if you use `ntp@mgmt.service`. The `ntpsec@mgmt.service` is re-generated automatically.
{{%/notice%}}

To validate that your configuration, run these commands:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo systemctl restart ntp
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo systemctl status -n0 ntpsec.service
```

If the state is not *Active*, or the alternate configuration file does not appear in the `ntp` command line, it is likely that you made a configuration mistake. Correct the mistake and rerun the commands above to verify.

## Configure NTP with Authorization Keys

For added security, you can configure NTP to use authorization keys.

### Configure the NTP Server

1. Create a `.keys` file, such as `/etc/ntp.keys`. Specify a key identifier (a number between 1 and 65535), an encryption method (M for MD5), and the password. The following provides an example:

    ```
    #
    # PLEASE DO NOT USE THE DEFAULT VALUES HERE.
    #
    #65535  M  akey
    #1      M  pass

    1  M  CumulusLinux!
    ```

2. In the `/etc/ntpsec/ntp.conf` file, add a pointer to the `/etc/ntp.keys` file you created above and specify the key identifier. For example:

    ```
    keys /etc/ntp/ntp.keys
    trustedkey 1
    controlkey 1
    requestkey 1
    ```

3. Restart NTP with the `sudo systemctl restart ntp` command.

### Configure the NTP Client

The NTP client is the Cumulus Linux switch.

1. Create the same `.keys` file you created on the NTP server (`/etc/ntp.keys`). For example:

    ```
    cumulus@switch:~$  sudo nano /etc/ntp.keys
    #
    # DO NOT USE THE DEFAULT VALUES HERE.
    #
    #65535  M  akey
    #1      M  pass

    1  M  CumulusLinux!
    ```

2. Edit the `/etc/ntpsec/ntp.conf` file to specify the server you want to use, the key identifier, and a pointer to the `/etc/ntp.keys` file you created in step 1. For example:

    ```
    cumulus@switch:~$ sudo nano /etc/ntpsec/ntp.conf
    ...
    # You do need to talk to an NTP server or two (or three).
    #pool ntp.your-provider.example
    # OR
    #server ntp.your-provider.example

    # pool.ntp.org maps to about 1000 low-stratum NTP servers.  Your server will
    # pick a different set every time it starts up.  Please consider joining the
    # pool: <http://www.pool.ntp.org/join.html>
    #server 0.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
    #server 1.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
    #server 2.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
    #server 3.cumulusnetworks.pool.ntp.org iburst
    server 10.50.23.121 key 1

    #keys
    keys /etc/ntp.keys
    trustedkey 1
    controlkey 1
    requestkey 1
    ...
    ```

3. Restart NTP in the active VRF (default or management). For example:

    ```
    cumulus@switch:~$ systemctl restart ntp@mgmt.service
    ```

4. Wait a few minutes, then run the `ntpq -c as` command to verify the configuration:

    ```
    cumulus@switch:~$ ntpq -c as

    ind assid status  conf reach auth condition  last_event cnt
    ===========================================================
      1 40828  f014   yes   yes   ok     reject   reachable  1
    ```

    After a successful authorization, you see the following command output:

    ```
    cumulus@switch:~$ ntpq -c as

    ind assid status  conf reach auth condition  last_event cnt
    ===========================================================
      1 40828  f61a   yes   yes   ok   sys.peer    sys_peer  1
    ```

## Considerations

NTP in Cumulus Linux uses the `/usr/share/zoneinfo/leap-seconds.list` file, which expires periodically and results in generated log messages about the expiration. When the file expires, update it from {{<exlink url="https://www.ietf.org/timezones/data/leap-seconds.list" text="https://www.ietf.org/timezones/data/leap-seconds.list">}} or upgrade the `tzdata` package to the newest version.

## Related Information

- {{<exlink url="http://www.ntp.org" text="NTP website">}}
- {{<exlink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_Time_Protocol" text="Wikipedia - Network Time Protocol">}}
- {{<exlink url="http://wiki.debian.org/NTP" text="Debian wiki - NTP">}}
