---
title: Management VRF
author: Cumulus Networks
weight: 141
aliases:
 - /display/CL25ESR/Management+VRF
 - /pages/viewpage.action?pageId=5116126
pageID: 5116126
product: Cumulus Linux
version: 2.5.12 ESR
imgData: cumulus-linux-2512-esr
siteSlug: cumulus-linux-2512-esr
---
*Management VRF* (multiple routing tables and forwarding) provides
routing separation between the out-of-band management network and the
in-band data plane network. When management VRF is enabled, applications
running on control plane processor communicate out from the management
network unless configured otherwise.

Management VRF creates two routing tables within the Linux kernel:

  - *main*: This is the routing table for all the data plane switch
    ports.

  - *mgmt*: This is the routing table for eth0.

Cumulus Linux only supports eth0 as the management interface. VLAN
subinterfaces, bonds, bridges and the front panel switch ports are not
supported as management interfaces.

Management VRF assumes all traffic *generated by the switch* (except via
Quagga) will exit eth0 by default, so unless there is application-level
intervention, any packet generated by an application on the switch will
only reference the eth0 routing table (the *mgmt* table). Applications
that need to communicate over the data plane network (the *main* table)
**must** bind to the loopback IP address.

For example, if the switch is responding to an inbound SSH connection or
inbound ping, management VRF does not force the traffic out through
eth0. However, if you attempt to SSH from the switch outbound, then
management VRF will force the traffic to exit eth0, unless you specify
otherwise. For example, when initiating an SSH connection, you can use
`-b <loopback IP address>` to SSH to a device via the data plane
network.

## <span>Enabling Management VRF</span>

To enable management VRF, complete the following steps:

1.  Update the `apt` source list:
    
        $ sudo apt-get update

2.  Install the management VRF package:
    
        sudo apt-get install cl-mgmtvrf

3.  Run the management VRF script:
    
        sudo cl-mgmtvrf --enable
    
    {{%notice note%}}
    
    Management VRF has hooks in the eth0 DHCP client to force the
    correct mgmt table routes when the DHCP address is obtained. If you
    use static IP address assignment on eth0, you have to manually
    configure the routes before you execute this step. See the 'Using
    Static IP Addresses on eth0' section below for more information.
    
    {{%/notice%}}

4.  Restart Quagga:
    
        sudo service quagga restart
    
    {{%notice note%}}
    
    You can also bounce adjacency to the peer advertising the default
    route to get the default route from the data plane network into the
    main routing table.
    
    {{%/notice%}}

### <span>Verifying Management VRF</span>

To check the status of management VRF, run:

    cl-mgmtvrf --status

This will display `cl-mgmtvrf is NOT enabled` or `cl-mgmtvrf is
enabled`, depending upon whether management VRF is disabled or enabled.

### <span>Disabling Management VRF</span>

To disable managment VRF, run:

    sudo cl-mgmtvrf --disable

{{%notice note%}}

If management VRF is disabled and the data plane adds a default route,
the default route via the management interface will **not** be added to
main routing table.

{{%/notice%}}

## <span>Using ping or traceroute</span>

By default, issuing a `ping` or `traceroute` assumes the packet should
be sent to the dataplane network (the main routing table). If you wish
to use `ping` or `traceroute` on the control plane network, use the `-I`
flag for ping and `-i` for traceroute.

    ping -I eth0

or

    sudo traceroute -i eth0

{{%notice note%}}

DNS does not work with `traceroute` or `ping` unless you explicitly add
support for the DNS server in the *main* routing table.

{{%/notice%}}

## <span>OSPF and BGP</span>

In general, no changes are required for either BGP or OSPF. Quagga was
updated in Cumulus Linux 2.5.3 to be aware of the management VRF and
automatically sends packets based on the switch port routing table. This
includes BGP peering via loopback interfaces. BGP does routing lookups
in the default table. However, one modification you may consider has to
do with how your routes get redistributed.

### <span>Redistributing Routes in Management VRF</span>

The control that management VRF has over the local routing table does
not extend to how the routes are redistributed when using routing
protocols such as OSPF and BGP.

To redistribute the routes in your network, use the `redistribute
connected` command under BGP or OSPF. This enables the directly
connected network out of eth0 to be advertised to its neighbor.

{{%notice note%}}

This also creates a route on the neighbor device to the management
network through the data plane, which may not be desired.

{{%/notice%}}

Cumulus Networks recommends you always use route maps to control the
advertised networks redistributed by the `redistribute connected`
command. For example, you can specify a route map to redistribute routes
in this way (for both BGP and OSPF):

    <routing protocol> 
    redistribute connected route-map redistribute-connected
    
    route-map redistribute-connected deny 100
     match interface eth0
    !
    route-map redistribute-connected permit 1000

## <span>SNMP Traps Use eth0 Only</span>

SNMP cannot currently use a switch port to send data. For any SNMP
traps, this traffic gets sent out to eth0. Cumulus Networks will support
switch ports in the future.

This restriction only applies to traps; SNMP polling is not affected.

## <span>SSH</span>

If you SSH to the switch through a switch port, it works as expected. If
you need to SSH from the device out a switch port, use `ssh -b
<ip_address_of_swp_port>`. For example:

    cumulus@leaf1$ ip addr show swp17
    19: swp17: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc pfifo_fast state UP qlen 500
        link/ether ec:f4:bb:fc:19:23 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
        inet 10.23.23.2/24 scope global swp17
        inet6 fe80::eef4:bbff:fefc:1923/64 scope link
           valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    
    cumulus@leaf1$ ssh -b 10.23.23.2 10.3.3.3

## <span>Viewing the Routing Tables</span>

When you look at the routing table with `ip route show`, you are looking
at the switch port (*main*) table. You can also see the dataplane
routing table with `ip route show table main`.

To look at information about eth0 (the management routing table), use
`ip route show table mgmt`.

    cumulus@leaf1$ ip route show table mgmt
    default via 192.168.0.1 dev eth0
    
    cumulus@leaf1$ ip route show
    default via 10.23.23.3 dev swp17  proto zebra  metric 20
    10.3.3.3 via 10.23.23.3 dev swp17
    10.23.23.0/24 dev swp17  proto kernel  scope link  src 10.23.23.2
    192.168.0.0/24 dev eth0  proto kernel  scope link  src 192.168.0.11

### <span>Viewing a Single Route</span>

Note that if you use `ip route get` to return information about a single
route, the command resolves over the *mgmt* table by default. To get
information about the route in the switching silicon, use:

    ip route get <addr> from <loopback IP> 

Or:

    sudo cl-rctl ip route show <addr> 

## <span>Using Static IP Addresses on eth0</span>

If you're using DHCP on your management network, the Management VRF
feature has hooks in the eth0 DHCP client to automatically add the
correct default and interface routes into the mgmt table when the DHCP
address is obtained.

If a static IP address is used in the eth0 definition, you must manually
control the connected and static routes attached to eth0 *before running
cl-mgmtvrf --enable*

To do this change the configuration in the /etc/network/interfaces as
follows:

    auto eth0
    iface eth0 inet static
      address 192.1.1.254/24
      post-up ip route add 192.1.1.0/24 dev eth0 table mgmt
      post-up ip route add default via 192.1.1.1 dev eth0 table mgmt
      post-up ip route del 192.1.1.0/24 dev eth0 table main
      post-down ip route del 192.1.1.0/24 dev eth0 table mgmt
      post-down ip route del default via 192.1.1.1 dev eth0 table mgmt

Then bounce eth0:

    sudo ifdown eth0; sudo ifup eth0

Enabling management VRF via `cl-mgmtvrf --enable` after this step should
lead to the expected routing behavior.

{{%notice note%}}

The `post-down` commands are there to ensure that no routing race
condition can occur on an interface experiencing route flapping. As a
result, the following error messages during a link flap are harmless and
can be ignored:

    warning: eth0: post-down cmd 'ip route del 192.1.1.0/24 dev eth0 table mgmt' failed (RTNETLINK answers: No such process)
    warning: eth0: post-down cmd 'ip route del default 192.1.1.1 via eth0 table mgmt' failed (Error: either "to" is duplicate, or "192.1.1.1" is a garbage.)

{{%/notice%}}

## <span>Incompatibility with cl-ns-mgmt</span>

{{%notice warning%}}

If you are using the Cumulus Linux [management
namespace](https://support.cumulusnetworks.com/hc/en-us/articles/202325278)
feature (via the `cl-ns-mgmt` utility), you cannot enable management
VRF, as the two features are incompatible. Management VRF does not run
if Cumulus Linux detects that you have management namespaces enabled,
and vice versa.

{{%/notice%}}

## <span>Log Files</span>

  - /var/log/cl-mgmtvrf.log

## <span>Caveats and Errata</span>

  - Unlike earlier versions of Cumulus Linux, with management VRF
    enabled, sFlow now sends and receives packets through switch ports
    as well as the management port, as long as `hsflowd` has a route
    available out of the main table. To enable this, contact the
    [Cumulus Networks support
    team](https://support.cumulusnetworks.com/hc/en-us/requests/new).

  - If you are using an [MLAG
    configuration](/version/cumulus-linux-2512-esr/Layer_1_and_Layer_2_Features/Multi-Chassis_Link_Aggregation_-_MLAG)
    when the eth0 management interface is enabled, you cannot specify a
    backup link (via `clagd-backup-ip`) over the switch ports.

  - Duplicate IP addresses are not supported i.e. you cannot have the
    same IP address in both the management network and the data network.

  - DHCP relay does not work with `cl-mgmtvrf` when the DHCP servers are
    on the management network. For more information, refer to the
    [knowledge base
    article](https://support.cumulusnetworks.com/hc/en-us/articles/214745028).

  - Cumulus Linux supports both DHCP and static DNS entries over
    management VRF through IP FIB rules. These rules are added to direct
    lookups to the DNS addresses out of the management VRF. However,
    nameservers configured through DHCP are automatically updated, while
    statically configured nameservers (configured in `/etc/resolv.conf`
    ) only get updated when you run `ifreload -a`.
    
    Because DNS lookups are forced out of the management interface using
    FIB rules, this could affect data plane ports if there are
    overlapping addresses.
