content/cumulus-linux-59/Whats-New/_index.md, before:

---
title: What's New
author: NVIDIA
weight: 5
toc: 2
---
This document supports the Cumulus Linux 5.9 release, and lists new platforms, features, and enhancements.

- For a list of all the platforms supported in Cumulus Linux 5.9, see the {{<exlink url="www.nvidia.com/en-us/networking/ethernet-switching/hardware-compatibility-list/" text="Hardware Compatibility List (HCL)">}}.
- For a list of open and fixed issues in Cumulus Linux 5.9, see the {{<link title="Cumulus Linux 5.9 Release Notes" text="Cumulus Linux 5.9 Release Notes">}}.
- To upgrade to Cumulus Linux 5.9, follow the steps in {{<link url="Upgrading-Cumulus-Linux">}}.
<!-- vale off -->
## What's New in Cumulus Linux 5.9.0
<!-- vale on -->
Cumulus Linux 5.9.0 contains several new features and improvements, and provides bug fixes.

### New Features and Enhancements

- Cumulus Linux upgrade to Debian 12 (bookworm)
- ARP packet path is now handled in hardware to offload most ARP processing and save CPU cycles
- {{<link url="ASIC-Monitoring" text="Latency histogram">}} for ASIC monitoring
- {{<link url="In-Service-System-Upgrade-ISSU/#restart-mode" text="Warmboot support for VXLAN EVPN">}} is now generally available
- Transmit {{<link url="Link-Layer-Discovery-Protocol/#transmit-application-priority-tlvs" text="LLDP application priority TLVs">}}
- {{<link url="LDAP-Authentication-and-Authorization" text="NVUE commands for LDAP authentication and encryption">}}
- {{<link url="Firewall-Rules" text="Firewall rules">}}
- {{<link url="CLI-Configuration" text="CLI Session pagination and timeout options">}}
- NVUE commands to perform a {{<link url="Upgrading-Cumulus-Linux/#upgrade-the-switch" text="package upgrade">}} and show if a reboot is required.
- Support Native vtysh/FRR output
- Interface summary view with filtering
- Admin State added to `nv show interface` output
- Cumulus Linux includes a default `startup.yaml` file and updated `nvued` defaults
- nv show platform command redesign
- Forwarding profiles standardized at 85% KVD utilization
- {{< expand "Improved tab completion for NVUE routing commands" >}}
  ```
  ```
  {{< /expand >}}
- {{< expand "New NVUE Commands" >}}
  For descriptions and examples of all NVUE commands, refer to the [NVUE Command Reference]({{<ref "/nvue-reference" >}}) for Cumulus Linux.
  
  {{< tabs "TabID49 ">}}
  {{< tab "nv show ">}}
  
  ```
  nv show interface <interface> lldp application-tlv
  nv show interface <interface> lldp application-tlv app
  nv show interface <interface> lldp application-tlv tcp-port
  nv show interface <interface> lldp application-tlv udp-port
  nv show service lldp application-tlv app
  nv show service lldp application-tlv tcp-port
  nv show service lldp application-tlv udp-port
  nv show system reboot required
  ```

  {{< /tab >}}
  {{< tab "nv set ">}}

  ```
  nv set service lldp application-tlv app <application> priority <priority> 
  nv set service lldp application-tlv tcp-port <port> priority <priority> 
  nv set service lldp application-tlv udp-port <port> priority <priority> 
  nv set interface <interface> lldp application-tlv app <application> 
  nv set interface <interface> lldp application-tlv tcp-port <port>
  nv set interface <interface> lldp application-tlv udp-port <port> 
  nv set system cli pagination state
  nv set system cli pagination pager
  nv set system cli inactive-timeout
  ```
  
  {{< /tab >}}
  {{< tab "nv unset ">}}
  
  ```
  nv unset service lldp application-tlv app <application> priority <priority> 
  nv unset service lldp application-tlv tcp-port <port> priority <priority> 
  nv unset service lldp application-tlv udp-port <port> priority <priority> 
  nv unset interface <interface> lldp application-tlv app <application> 
  nv unset interface <interface> lldp application-tlv tcp-port <port>
  nv unset interface <interface> lldp application-tlv udp-port <port> 
  nv unset system cli pagination state
  nv unset system cli pagination pager
  nv unset system cli inactive-timeout
  ```

  {{< /tab >}}
  {{< tab "nv action ">}}
  
  ```
  nv action upgrade system packages to <version> dry-run
  nv action upgrade system packages to <version>
  ```

  {{< /tab >}}
  {{< /tabs >}}
  
  {{< /expand >}}

{{%notice note%}}
The repository key stored in Cumulus Linux 5.5.0 and earlier has expired. Before performing a package upgrade to Cumulus Linux 5.9.0 from Cumulus Linux 5.5.0 and earlier, you must install the new key. See [this knowledge base article]({{<ref "/knowledge-base/Installing-and-Upgrading/Upgrading/Update-Expired-GPG-Keys" >}}).
{{%/notice%}}

{{%notice info%}}
Cumulus Linux 5.9 includes the NVUE object model. After you upgrade to Cumulus Linux 5.9, running NVUE configuration commands might override configuration for features that are now configurable with NVUE and removes configuration you added manually to files or with automation tools like Ansible, Chef, or Puppet. To keep your configuration, you can do one of the following:
- Update your automation tools to use NVUE.
- {{<link url="NVUE-CLI/#configure-nvue-to-ignore-linux-files" text="Configure NVUE to ignore certain underlying Linux files">}} when applying configuration changes.
- Use Linux and FRR (vtysh) commands instead of NVUE for **all** switch configuration.

Cumulus Linux 3.7, 4.3, and 4.4 continue to support NCLU. For more information, contact your NVIDIA Spectrum platform sales representative.
{{%/notice%}}

Commit message:

RM-30329297 QSFP-DD/OSFP 4x breakout now allocates 2 lanes per port

content/cumulus-linux-59/Whats-New/_index.md, after:

---
title: What's New
author: NVIDIA
weight: 5
toc: 2
---
This document supports the Cumulus Linux 5.9 release, and lists new platforms, features, and enhancements.

- For a list of all the platforms supported in Cumulus Linux 5.9, see the {{<exlink url="www.nvidia.com/en-us/networking/ethernet-switching/hardware-compatibility-list/" text="Hardware Compatibility List (HCL)">}}.
- For a list of open and fixed issues in Cumulus Linux 5.9, see the {{<link title="Cumulus Linux 5.9 Release Notes" text="Cumulus Linux 5.9 Release Notes">}}.
- To upgrade to Cumulus Linux 5.9, follow the steps in {{<link url="Upgrading-Cumulus-Linux">}}.
<!-- vale off -->
## What's New in Cumulus Linux 5.9.0
<!-- vale on -->
Cumulus Linux 5.9.0 contains several new features and improvements, and provides bug fixes.

### New Features and Enhancements

- Cumulus Linux upgrade to Debian 12 (bookworm)
- ARP packet path is now handled in hardware to offload most ARP processing and save CPU cycles
- {{<link url="ASIC-Monitoring" text="Latency histogram">}} for ASIC monitoring
- {{<link url="In-Service-System-Upgrade-ISSU/#restart-mode" text="Warmboot support for VXLAN EVPN">}} is now generally available
- Transmit {{<link url="Link-Layer-Discovery-Protocol/#transmit-application-priority-tlvs" text="LLDP application priority TLVs">}}
- {{<link url="LDAP-Authentication-and-Authorization" text="NVUE commands for LDAP authentication and encryption">}}
- {{<link url="Firewall-Rules" text="Firewall rules">}}
- {{<link url="CLI-Configuration" text="CLI Session pagination and timeout options">}}
- NVUE commands to perform a {{<link url="Upgrading-Cumulus-Linux/#upgrade-the-switch" text="package upgrade">}} and show if a reboot is required.
- Support Native vtysh/FRR output
- Interface summary view with filtering
- Admin State added to `nv show interface` output
- Cumulus Linux includes a default `startup.yaml` file and updated `nvued` defaults
- nv show platform command redesign
- Forwarding profiles standardized at 85% KVD utilization
- QSFP-DD/OSFP 4x breakout now allocates two lanes per port instead of one lane. Be sure to configure the lanes per port on both ends of a connection to be the same.
- {{< expand "Improved tab completion for NVUE routing commands" >}}
  ```
  ```
  {{< /expand >}}
- {{< expand "New NVUE Commands" >}}
  For descriptions and examples of all NVUE commands, refer to the [NVUE Command Reference]({{<ref "/nvue-reference" >}}) for Cumulus Linux.
  
  {{< tabs "TabID49 ">}}
  {{< tab "nv show ">}}
  
  ```
  nv show interface <interface> lldp application-tlv
  nv show interface <interface> lldp application-tlv app
  nv show interface <interface> lldp application-tlv tcp-port
  nv show interface <interface> lldp application-tlv udp-port
  nv show service lldp application-tlv app
  nv show service lldp application-tlv tcp-port
  nv show service lldp application-tlv udp-port
  nv show system reboot required
  ```

  {{< /tab >}}
  {{< tab "nv set ">}}

  ```
  nv set service lldp application-tlv app <application> priority <priority> 
  nv set service lldp application-tlv tcp-port <port> priority <priority> 
  nv set service lldp application-tlv udp-port <port> priority <priority> 
  nv set interface <interface> lldp application-tlv app <application> 
  nv set interface <interface> lldp application-tlv tcp-port <port>
  nv set interface <interface> lldp application-tlv udp-port <port> 
  nv set system cli pagination state
  nv set system cli pagination pager
  nv set system cli inactive-timeout
  ```
  
  {{< /tab >}}
  {{< tab "nv unset ">}}
  
  ```
  nv unset service lldp application-tlv app <application> priority <priority> 
  nv unset service lldp application-tlv tcp-port <port> priority <priority> 
  nv unset service lldp application-tlv udp-port <port> priority <priority> 
  nv unset interface <interface> lldp application-tlv app <application> 
  nv unset interface <interface> lldp application-tlv tcp-port <port>
  nv unset interface <interface> lldp application-tlv udp-port <port> 
  nv unset system cli pagination state
  nv unset system cli pagination pager
  nv unset system cli inactive-timeout
  ```

  {{< /tab >}}
  {{< tab "nv action ">}}
  
  ```
  nv action upgrade system packages to <version> dry-run
  nv action upgrade system packages to <version>
  ```

  {{< /tab >}}
  {{< /tabs >}}
  
  {{< /expand >}}

{{%notice note%}}
The repository key stored in Cumulus Linux 5.5.0 and earlier has expired. Before performing a package upgrade to Cumulus Linux 5.9.0 from Cumulus Linux 5.5.0 and earlier, you must install the new key. See [this knowledge base article]({{<ref "/knowledge-base/Installing-and-Upgrading/Upgrading/Update-Expired-GPG-Keys" >}}).
{{%/notice%}}

{{%notice info%}}
Cumulus Linux 5.9 includes the NVUE object model. After you upgrade to Cumulus Linux 5.9, running NVUE configuration commands might override configuration for features that are now configurable with NVUE and removes configuration you added manually to files or with automation tools like Ansible, Chef, or Puppet. To keep your configuration, you can do one of the following:
- Update your automation tools to use NVUE.
- {{<link url="NVUE-CLI/#configure-nvue-to-ignore-linux-files" text="Configure NVUE to ignore certain underlying Linux files">}} when applying configuration changes.
- Use Linux and FRR (vtysh) commands instead of NVUE for **all** switch configuration.

Cumulus Linux 3.7, 4.3, and 4.4 continue to support NCLU. For more information, contact your NVIDIA Spectrum platform sales representative.
{{%/notice%}}
