content/cumulus-linux-41/Monitoring-and-Troubleshooting/Network-Troubleshooting/Monitoring-System-Statistics-and-Network-Traffic-with-sFlow.md, before:

---
title: Monitoring System Statistics and Network Traffic with sFlow
author: NVIDIA
weight: 1070
toc: 4
---
{{<exlink url="http://www.sflow.org/index.php" text="sFlow">}} is a monitoring protocol that samples network packets, application operations, and system counters. sFlow collects both interface counters and sampled 5-tuple packet information, so that you can monitor your network traffic as well as your switch state and performance metrics. An outside server, known as an *sFlow collector*, is required to collect and analyze this data.

`hsflowd` is the daemon that samples and sends sFlow data to configured collectors. By default, `hsflowd` is disabled and does *not* start automatically when the switch boots up.

{{%notice note%}}

- sFlow is not supported on Broadcom switches with the Hurricane2 ASIC.
- If you intend to run this service within a {{<link url="Virtual-Routing-and-Forwarding-VRF" text="VRF">}},
including the {{<link url="Management-VRF" text="management VRF">}}, follow {{<link url="Management-VRF#run-services-within-the-management-vrf" text="these steps">}} for configuring the service.

{{%/notice%}}

## Configure sFlow

To configure `hsflowd` to send to the designated collectors, either:

- Use DNS service discovery (DNS-SD)
- Manually configure the `/etc/hsflowd.conf` file

### Configure sFlow with DNS-SD

You can configure your DNS zone to advertise the collectors and polling information to all interested clients.

Add the following content to the zone file on your DNS server:

```
_sflow._udp SRV 0 0 6343 collector1
_sflow._udp SRV 0 0 6344 collector2
_sflow._udp TXT (
"txtvers=1"
"sampling.100M=100"
"sampling.1G=1000"
"sampling.10G=10000"
"sampling.40G=40000"
"sampling.100G=100000"
"polling=20"
)
```

The above snippet instructs `hsflowd` to send sFlow data to collector1 on port 6343 and to collector2 on port 6344. `hsflowd` will poll counters every 20 seconds and sample 1 out of every 2048 packets.

{{%notice note%}}

The maximum samples per second delivered from the hardware is limited to 16K. You can configure the number of samples per second in the `/etc/cumulus/datapath/traffic.conf` file, as shown below:

```
# Set sflow/sample ingress cpu packet rate and burst in packets/sec
# Values: {0..16384}
#sflow.rate = 16384
#sflow.burst = 16384
```

{{%/notice%}}

Start the sFlow daemon:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo systemctl start hsflowd.service
```

No additional configuration is required in the `/etc/hsflowd.conf` file.

### Manually Configure /etc/hsflowd.conf

You can set up the collectors and variables on each switch.

Edit the `/etc/hsflowd.conf` file to set up your collectors and sampling rates in `/etc/hsflowd.conf`. For example:

```
sflow {
# ====== Sampling/Polling/Collectors ======
  # EITHER: automatic (DNS SRV+TXT from _sflow._udp):
  #   DNS-SD { }
  # OR: manual:
  #   Counter Polling:
        polling = 20
  #   default sampling N:
  #     sampling = 400
  #   sampling N on interfaces with ifSpeed:
        sampling.100M = 100
        sampling.1G = 1000
        sampling.10G = 10000
        sampling.40G = 40000
  #   sampling N for apache, nginx:
  #     sampling.http = 50
  #     sampling N for application (requires json):
  #     sampling.app.myapp = 100
  #   collectors:
  collector { ip=192.0.2.100 udpport=6343 }
  collector { ip=192.0.2.200 udpport=6344 }
}
```

This configuration polls the counters every 20 seconds, samples 1 of every 40000 packets for 40G interfaces, and sends this information to a collector at 192.0.2.100 on port 6343 and to another collector at 192.0.2.200 on port 6344.

{{%notice note%}}

Some collectors require each source to transmit on a different port, others listen on only one port. Refer to the documentation for your collector for more information.

{{%/notice%}}

## Configure sFlow Visualization Tools

For information on configuring various sFlow visualization tools, read this [knowledge base article]({{<ref "/knowledge-base/Configuration-and-Usage/Monitoring/Configure-and-Use-sFlow-Visualization-Tools" >}}).

## Caveats and Errata

The {{<exlink url="www.nvidia.com/en-us/networking/ethernet-switching/hardware-compatibility-list/" text="EdgeCore AS4610 switch">}} occasionally sends malformed packets and does not send any flow samples; it sends only counters. This is a known limitation on this Helix4 platform.

## Related Information

- {{<exlink url="http://www.sflow.org/products/collectors.php" text="sFlow Collectors">}}
- {{<exlink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SFlow" text="sFlow Wikipedia page">}}

Commit message:

add note that Mellanox switches do not support egress sampling

content/cumulus-linux-41/Monitoring-and-Troubleshooting/Network-Troubleshooting/Monitoring-System-Statistics-and-Network-Traffic-with-sFlow.md, after:

---
title: Monitoring System Statistics and Network Traffic with sFlow
author: NVIDIA
weight: 1070
toc: 4
---
{{<exlink url="http://www.sflow.org/index.php" text="sFlow">}} is a monitoring protocol that samples network packets, application operations, and system counters. sFlow collects both interface counters and sampled 5-tuple packet information, so that you can monitor your network traffic as well as your switch state and performance metrics. An outside server, known as an *sFlow collector*, is required to collect and analyze this data.

`hsflowd` is the daemon that samples and sends sFlow data to configured collectors. By default, `hsflowd` is disabled and does *not* start automatically when the switch boots up.

{{%notice note%}}

- sFlow is not supported on Broadcom switches with the Hurricane2 ASIC.
- If you intend to run this service within a {{<link url="Virtual-Routing-and-Forwarding-VRF" text="VRF">}},
including the {{<link url="Management-VRF" text="management VRF">}}, follow {{<link url="Management-VRF#run-services-within-the-management-vrf" text="these steps">}} for configuring the service.

{{%/notice%}}

## Configure sFlow

To configure `hsflowd` to send to the designated collectors, either:

- Use DNS service discovery (DNS-SD)
- Manually configure the `/etc/hsflowd.conf` file

### Configure sFlow with DNS-SD

You can configure your DNS zone to advertise the collectors and polling information to all interested clients.

Add the following content to the zone file on your DNS server:

```
_sflow._udp SRV 0 0 6343 collector1
_sflow._udp SRV 0 0 6344 collector2
_sflow._udp TXT (
"txtvers=1"
"sampling.100M=100"
"sampling.1G=1000"
"sampling.10G=10000"
"sampling.40G=40000"
"sampling.100G=100000"
"polling=20"
)
```

The above snippet instructs `hsflowd` to send sFlow data to collector1 on port 6343 and to collector2 on port 6344. `hsflowd` will poll counters every 20 seconds and sample 1 out of every 2048 packets.

{{%notice note%}}

The maximum samples per second delivered from the hardware is limited to 16K. You can configure the number of samples per second in the `/etc/cumulus/datapath/traffic.conf` file, as shown below:

```
# Set sflow/sample ingress cpu packet rate and burst in packets/sec
# Values: {0..16384}
#sflow.rate = 16384
#sflow.burst = 16384
```

{{%/notice%}}

Start the sFlow daemon:

```
cumulus@switch:~$ sudo systemctl start hsflowd.service
```

No additional configuration is required in the `/etc/hsflowd.conf` file.

### Manually Configure /etc/hsflowd.conf

You can set up the collectors and variables on each switch.

Edit the `/etc/hsflowd.conf` file to set up your collectors and sampling rates in `/etc/hsflowd.conf`. For example:

```
sflow {
# ====== Sampling/Polling/Collectors ======
  # EITHER: automatic (DNS SRV+TXT from _sflow._udp):
  #   DNS-SD { }
  # OR: manual:
  #   Counter Polling:
        polling = 20
  #   default sampling N:
  #     sampling = 400
  #   sampling N on interfaces with ifSpeed:
        sampling.100M = 100
        sampling.1G = 1000
        sampling.10G = 10000
        sampling.40G = 40000
  #   sampling N for apache, nginx:
  #     sampling.http = 50
  #     sampling N for application (requires json):
  #     sampling.app.myapp = 100
  #   collectors:
  collector { ip=192.0.2.100 udpport=6343 }
  collector { ip=192.0.2.200 udpport=6344 }
}
```

This configuration polls the counters every 20 seconds, samples 1 of every 40000 packets for 40G interfaces, and sends this information to a collector at 192.0.2.100 on port 6343 and to another collector at 192.0.2.200 on port 6344.

{{%notice note%}}

Some collectors require each source to transmit on a different port, others listen on only one port. Refer to the documentation for your collector for more information.

{{%/notice%}}

## Configure sFlow Visualization Tools

For information on configuring various sFlow visualization tools, read this [knowledge base article]({{<ref "/knowledge-base/Configuration-and-Usage/Monitoring/Configure-and-Use-sFlow-Visualization-Tools" >}}).

## Considerations

- Mellanox switches do not support sFlow egress sampling.
- The {{<exlink url="www.nvidia.com/en-us/networking/ethernet-switching/hardware-compatibility-list/" text="EdgeCore AS4610 switch">}} occasionally sends malformed packets and does not send any flow samples; it sends only counters. This is a known limitation on this Helix4 platform.

## Related Information

- {{<exlink url="http://www.sflow.org/products/collectors.php" text="sFlow Collectors">}}
- {{<exlink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SFlow" text="sFlow Wikipedia page">}}
