content/cumulus-linux-57/Network-Virtualization/Ethernet-Virtual-Private-Network-EVPN/Basic-Configuration.md, before:

---
title: Basic Configuration
author: NVIDIA
weight: 550
toc: 4
---
The following sections provide the basic configuration needed to use EVPN as the control plane for VXLAN in a BGP-EVPN-based layer 2 extension deployment. For layer 3 multi-tenancy configuration, see {{<link url="Inter-subnet-Routing" text="Inter-subnet Routing">}}. For additional EVPN configuration, see {{<link url="EVPN-Enhancements" text="EVPN Enhancements">}}.

## Basic EVPN Configuration Commands

Basic configuration in a BGP-EVPN-based layer 2 extension deployment requires you to:
- Configure VXLAN interfaces
- Configure BGP
- Activate the EVPN address family and enable EVPN between BGP neighbors

{{%notice note%}}
For a non-VTEP device that is only participating in EVPN route exchange, such as a spine switch where the network deployment uses hop-by-hop eBGP or the switch is acting as an iBGP route reflector, configuring VXLAN interfaces is not required.
{{%/notice%}}

{{< tabs "TabID20 ">}}
{{< tab "NVUE Commands ">}}

1. Configure VXLAN Interfaces. The following example creates a single VXLAN device (vxlan0), maps VLAN 10 to vni10 and VLAN 20 to vni20, adds the VXLAN device to the default bridge `br_default`, and sets the VXLAN local tunnel IP address to 10.10.10.10.

   ```
   cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv set bridge domain br_default vlan 10 vni 10
   cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv set bridge domain br_default vlan 20 vni 20
   cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv set nve vxlan source address 10.10.10.10
   cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv config apply
   ```

   To create a traditional VXLAN device, where each VNI represents a separate device instead of a set of VNIs in a single device model, see {{<link url="VXLAN-Devices" text="VXLAN-Devices">}}.

2. Configure BGP. The following example commands assign an ASN and router ID to leaf01 and spine01, specify the interfaces between the two BGP peers, and the prefixes to originate. For complete information on how to configure BGP, see {{<link url="Border-Gateway-Protocol-BGP" text="Border Gateway Protocol - BGP">}}.

   {{< tabs "TabID110 ">}}
{{< tab "leaf01 ">}}

```
cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv set router bgp autonomous-system 65101
cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv set router bgp router-id 10.10.10.1
cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv set vrf default router bgp neighbor swp51 remote-as external
cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv set vrf default router bgp address-family ipv4-unicast network 10.10.10.1/32
cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv config apply
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "spine01 ">}}

```
cumulus@spine01:~$ nv set router bgp autonomous-system 65199
cumulus@spine01:~$ nv set router bgp router-id 10.10.10.101
cumulus@spine01:~$ nv set vrf default router bgp neighbor swp1 remote-as external
cumulus@spine01:~$ nv set vrf default router bgp address-family ipv4-unicast network 10.10.10.101/32
cumulus@spine01:~$ nv config apply
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

3. Activate the EVPN address family and enable EVPN between BGP neighbors. The following example commands enable EVPN between leaf01 and spine01:

   {{< tabs "TabID137 ">}}
{{< tab "leaf01 ">}}

```
cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv set evpn enable on
cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv set vrf default router bgp address-family l2vpn-evpn enable on
cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv set vrf default router bgp neighbor swp51 address-family l2vpn-evpn enable on
cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv config apply
```

You do not need enable the BGP control plane for all VNIs configured on the switch with NVUE with the `advertise-all-vni` option. FRR **is** aware of any local VNIs and MACs, and hosts (neighbors) associated with those VNIs.

After you run `nv config save`, the NVUE Commands create the following configuration snippet in the `/etc/nvue.d/startup.yaml` file:

```
cumulus@leaf01:~$ sudo cat /etc/nvue.d/startup.yaml
- set:
    interface:
      lo:
        ip:
          address:
            10.10.10.1/32: {}
        type: loopback
    bridge:
      domain:
        br_default:
          vlan:
            '10':
              vni:
                '10': {}
            '20':
              vni:
                '20': {}
    nve:
      vxlan:
        enable: on
        source:
          address: 10.10.10.10
    router:
      bgp:
        autonomous-system: 65101
        enable: on
        router-id: 10.10.10.1
    vrf:
      default:
        router:
          bgp:
            peer:
              swp51:
                remote-as: external
                type: unnumbered
            enable: on
            address-family:
              ipv4-unicast:
                network:
                  10.10.10.1/32: {}
                enable: on
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "spine01 ">}}

```
cumulus@spine01:~$ nv set vrf default router bgp address-family l2vpn-evpn enable on
cumulus@spine01:~$ nv set vrf default router bgp neighbor swp1 address-family l2vpn-evpn enable on
cumulus@spine01:~$ nv config apply
```

After you run `nv config save`, the NVUE Commands create the following configuration snippet in the `/etc/nvue.d/startup.yaml` file:

```
cumulus@spine01:~$ sudo cat /etc/nvue.d/startup.yaml
- set:
    interface:
      lo:
        ip:
          address:
            10.10.10.101/32: {}
        type: loopback
    bridge:
      domain:
        br_default:
          vlan:
            '10':
              vni:
                '10': {}
            '20':
              vni:
                '20': {}
    nve:
      vxlan:
        enable: on
        source:
          address: 10.10.10.101
    router:
      bgp:
        autonomous-system: 65199
        enable: on
        router-id: 10.10.10.101
    vrf:
      default:
        router:
          bgp:
            peer:
              swp1:
                remote-as: external
                type: unnumbered
            enable: on
            address-family:
              ipv4-unicast:
                network:
                  10.10.10.101/32: {}
                enable: on
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "Linux and vtysh Commands ">}}

1. Edit the `/etc/network/interfaces` file to create a single VXLAN device, attach it to a bridge, map the VLANs to the VNIs, and set the VXLAN local tunnel IP address. The example below creates a single VXLAN interface (vxlan0), maps VLAN 10 to vni10 and VLAN 20 to vni20, and sets the VXLAN local tunnel IP address to 10.10.10.10.

   ```
   cumulus@leaf01:~$ sudo nano /etc/network/interfaces
   ...
   auto lo
   iface lo inet loopback
           address 10.10.10.1/32
           vxlan-local-tunnelip 10.10.10.10
  ...
   auto vxlan0
   iface vxlan0
    bridge-vlan-vni-map 10=10 20=20
    bridge-vids 10 20
    bridge-learning off

   auto br_default
   iface br_default
           bridge-ports swp1 swp2 vxlan0
           bridge-vlan-aware yes
           bridge-vids 10 20
           bridge-pvid 1
   ```

2. Configure BGP with vtysh commands. The following example commands assign an ASN and router ID to leaf01 and spine01, specify the interfaces between the two BGP peers, and the prefixes to originate. For complete information on how to configure BGP, see {{<link url="Border-Gateway-Protocol-BGP" text="Border Gateway Protocol - BGP">}}.

   {{< tabs "TabID299 ">}}
{{< tab "leaf01 ">}}

```
cumulus@leaf01:~$ sudo vtysh
leaf01# configure terminal
leaf01(config)# router bgp 65101
leaf01(config-router)# bgp router-id 10.10.10.1
leaf01(config-router)# neighbor swp51 remote-as external
leaf01(config-router)# address-family ipv4
leaf01(config-router-af)# network 10.10.10.1/32
leaf01(config-router-af)# end
leaf01# write memory
leaf01# exit
cumulus@leaf01:~$
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "spine01 ">}}

```
cumulus@spine01:~$ sudo vtysh
spine01# configure terminal
spine01(config)# router bgp 65199
spine01(config-router)# bgp router-id 10.10.10.101
spine01(config-router)# neighbor swp1 remote-as external
spine01(config-router)# address-family ipv4
spine01(config-router-af)# network 10.10.10.101/32
spine01(config-router-af)# end
spine01# write memory
spine01# exit
cumulus@spine01:~$
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

3. Activate the EVPN address family and enable EVPN between BGP neighbors. The following example commands enable EVPN between leaf01 and spine01. The commands automatically provision all locally configured VNIs so the BGP control plane can advertise them.

   {{< tabs "TabID338 ">}}
{{< tab "leaf01 ">}}

```
cumulus@leaf01:~$ sudo vtysh

leaf01# configure terminal
leaf01(config)# router bgp 65101
leaf01(config-router)# bgp router-id 10.10.10.1
leaf01(config-router)# neighbor swp51 interface remote-as external
leaf01(config-router)# address-family l2vpn evpn
leaf01(config-router-af)# neighbor swp51 activate
leaf01(config-router-af)# advertise-all-vni
leaf01(config-router-af)# end
leaf01# write memory
leaf01# exit
cumulus@leaf01:~$
```

The vtysh commands create the following configuration snippet in the `/etc/frr/frr.conf` file.

```
...
router bgp 65101
  bgp router-id 10.10.10.1
  neighbor swp51 interface remote-as external
  address-family l2vpn evpn
neighbor swp1 activate
  advertise-all-vni
...
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "spine01 ">}}

```
cumulus@spine01:~$ sudo vtysh

spine01# configure terminal
spine01(config)# router bgp 65199
spine01(config-router)# bgp router-id 10.10.10.101
spine01(config-router)# neighbor swp1 interface remote-as external
spine01(config-router)# address-family l2vpn evpn
spine01(config-router-af)# neighbor swp51 activate
spine01(config-router-af)# end
spine01# write memory
spine01# exit
cumulus@spine01:~$
```

The vtysh commands create the following configuration snippet in the `/etc/frr/frr.conf` file:

```
...
router bgp 65199
  bgp router-id 10.10.10.101
  neighbor swp1 interface remote-as external
  address-family l2vpn evpn
neighbor swp1 activate
...
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{%notice note%}}
You only need to set the `advertise-all-vni` option on leafs that are VTEPs. The switch accepts EVPN routes from a BGP peer even without this option. The routes are in the global EVPN routing table but Cumulus Linux only imports them into the per-VNI routing table and installs the appropriate entries in the kernel when the VNI corresponding to the received route is locally known.
{{%/notice%}}

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

<!-- vale off -->
## EVPN and VXLAN Active-active Mode
<!-- vale on -->
For EVPN in VXLAN active-active mode, both switches in the MLAG pair establish EVPN peering with other EVPN speakers (for example, with spine switches if using hop-by-hop eBGP) and inform about their locally known VNIs and MACs. When MLAG is active, both switches announce this information with the shared anycast IP address.

For active-active configuration, make sure that:

- The `clagd-vxlan-anycast-ip` and `vxlan-local-tunnelip` parameters are under the loopback stanza on both peers.
- Both peers advertise the anycast address to the routed fabric.
- The VNI configuration is identical on both peers.
- The peerlink belongs to the bridge.

MLAG synchronizes information between the two switches in the MLAG pair; EVPN does not synchronize.

For type-5 routes in an EVPN *symmetric* configuration with VXLAN active-active mode, Cumulus Linux uses Primary IP Address Advertisement. For information on configuring Primary IP Address Advertisement, see {{<link url="Inter-subnet-Routing#advertise-primary-ip-address-vxlan-active-active-mode" text="Advertise Primary IP Address">}}.

For information about active-active VTEPs and anycast IP behavior, and for failure scenarios, see {{<link url="VXLAN-Active-active-Mode">}}.

## Considerations

- When you enable EVPN on a VTEP, the switch advertises all its locally defined VNIs and other information, such as MAC addresses, to EVPN peers. There is no provision to only announce certain VNIs.
- You can only use ND suppression on Spectrum_A1 and above.
-  Cumulus Linux enables ARP suppression by default. However, in a {{<link url="VXLAN-Active-active-Mode" text="VXLAN active-active">}} configuration, if the switch does not suppress ARPs, the control plane does not synchronize neighbor entries between the two switches operating in active-active mode. You do not see any impact on forwarding.
- You must configure the overlay (tenants) in a specific VRF and separate from the underlay, which resides in the default VRF. Cumulus Linux does not support layer 3 VNI mapping for the default VRF.
- You cannot configure EVPN with {{<link title="Redistribute Neighbor" >}}. Enabling both features simultaneously causes instability in IPv4 and IPv6 neighbor entries.
- To conform to {{<exlink url="https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6514#section-5" text="RFC 6514">}}, Cumulus Linux implements a stricter check on a received type-3 route to ensure that the PMSI attribute is *ingress-replication*.

Commit message:

traditional to single vxlan device - linux command

content/cumulus-linux-57/Network-Virtualization/Ethernet-Virtual-Private-Network-EVPN/Basic-Configuration.md, after:

---
title: Basic Configuration
author: NVIDIA
weight: 550
toc: 4
---
The following sections provide the basic configuration needed to use EVPN as the control plane for VXLAN in a BGP-EVPN-based layer 2 extension deployment. For layer 3 multi-tenancy configuration, see {{<link url="Inter-subnet-Routing" text="Inter-subnet Routing">}}. For additional EVPN configuration, see {{<link url="EVPN-Enhancements" text="EVPN Enhancements">}}.

## Basic EVPN Configuration Commands

Basic configuration in a BGP-EVPN-based layer 2 extension deployment requires you to:
- Configure VXLAN interfaces
- Configure BGP
- Activate the EVPN address family and enable EVPN between BGP neighbors

{{%notice note%}}
For a non-VTEP device that is only participating in EVPN route exchange, such as a spine switch where the network deployment uses hop-by-hop eBGP or the switch is acting as an iBGP route reflector, configuring VXLAN interfaces is not required.
{{%/notice%}}

{{< tabs "TabID20 ">}}
{{< tab "NVUE Commands ">}}

1. Configure VXLAN Interfaces. The following example creates a single VXLAN device (vxlan0), maps VLAN 10 to vni10 and VLAN 20 to vni20, adds the VXLAN device to the default bridge `br_default`, and sets the VXLAN local tunnel IP address to 10.10.10.10.

   ```
   cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv set bridge domain br_default vlan 10 vni 10
   cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv set bridge domain br_default vlan 20 vni 20
   cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv set nve vxlan source address 10.10.10.10
   cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv config apply
   ```

   To create a traditional VXLAN device, where each VNI represents a separate device instead of a set of VNIs in a single device model, see {{<link url="VXLAN-Devices" text="VXLAN-Devices">}}.

2. Configure BGP. The following example commands assign an ASN and router ID to leaf01 and spine01, specify the interfaces between the two BGP peers, and the prefixes to originate. For complete information on how to configure BGP, see {{<link url="Border-Gateway-Protocol-BGP" text="Border Gateway Protocol - BGP">}}.

   {{< tabs "TabID110 ">}}
{{< tab "leaf01 ">}}

```
cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv set router bgp autonomous-system 65101
cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv set router bgp router-id 10.10.10.1
cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv set vrf default router bgp neighbor swp51 remote-as external
cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv set vrf default router bgp address-family ipv4-unicast network 10.10.10.1/32
cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv config apply
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "spine01 ">}}

```
cumulus@spine01:~$ nv set router bgp autonomous-system 65199
cumulus@spine01:~$ nv set router bgp router-id 10.10.10.101
cumulus@spine01:~$ nv set vrf default router bgp neighbor swp1 remote-as external
cumulus@spine01:~$ nv set vrf default router bgp address-family ipv4-unicast network 10.10.10.101/32
cumulus@spine01:~$ nv config apply
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

3. Activate the EVPN address family and enable EVPN between BGP neighbors. The following example commands enable EVPN between leaf01 and spine01:

   {{< tabs "TabID137 ">}}
{{< tab "leaf01 ">}}

```
cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv set evpn enable on
cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv set vrf default router bgp address-family l2vpn-evpn enable on
cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv set vrf default router bgp neighbor swp51 address-family l2vpn-evpn enable on
cumulus@leaf01:~$ nv config apply
```

You do not need enable the BGP control plane for all VNIs configured on the switch with NVUE with the `advertise-all-vni` option. FRR **is** aware of any local VNIs and MACs, and hosts (neighbors) associated with those VNIs.

After you run `nv config save`, the NVUE Commands create the following configuration snippet in the `/etc/nvue.d/startup.yaml` file:

```
cumulus@leaf01:~$ sudo cat /etc/nvue.d/startup.yaml
- set:
    interface:
      lo:
        ip:
          address:
            10.10.10.1/32: {}
        type: loopback
    bridge:
      domain:
        br_default:
          vlan:
            '10':
              vni:
                '10': {}
            '20':
              vni:
                '20': {}
    nve:
      vxlan:
        enable: on
        source:
          address: 10.10.10.10
    router:
      bgp:
        autonomous-system: 65101
        enable: on
        router-id: 10.10.10.1
    vrf:
      default:
        router:
          bgp:
            peer:
              swp51:
                remote-as: external
                type: unnumbered
            enable: on
            address-family:
              ipv4-unicast:
                network:
                  10.10.10.1/32: {}
                enable: on
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "spine01 ">}}

```
cumulus@spine01:~$ nv set vrf default router bgp address-family l2vpn-evpn enable on
cumulus@spine01:~$ nv set vrf default router bgp neighbor swp1 address-family l2vpn-evpn enable on
cumulus@spine01:~$ nv config apply
```

After you run `nv config save`, the NVUE Commands create the following configuration snippet in the `/etc/nvue.d/startup.yaml` file:

```
cumulus@spine01:~$ sudo cat /etc/nvue.d/startup.yaml
- set:
    interface:
      lo:
        ip:
          address:
            10.10.10.101/32: {}
        type: loopback
    bridge:
      domain:
        br_default:
          vlan:
            '10':
              vni:
                '10': {}
            '20':
              vni:
                '20': {}
    nve:
      vxlan:
        enable: on
        source:
          address: 10.10.10.101
    router:
      bgp:
        autonomous-system: 65199
        enable: on
        router-id: 10.10.10.101
    vrf:
      default:
        router:
          bgp:
            peer:
              swp1:
                remote-as: external
                type: unnumbered
            enable: on
            address-family:
              ipv4-unicast:
                network:
                  10.10.10.101/32: {}
                enable: on
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "Linux and vtysh Commands ">}}

1. Edit the `/etc/network/interfaces` file to create a single VXLAN device, attach it to a bridge, map the VLANs to the VNIs, and set the VXLAN local tunnel IP address. The example below creates a single VXLAN interface (vxlan0), maps VLAN 10 to vni10 and VLAN 20 to vni20, and sets the VXLAN local tunnel IP address to 10.10.10.10.

   ```
   cumulus@leaf01:~$ sudo nano /etc/network/interfaces
   ...
   auto lo
   iface lo inet loopback
           address 10.10.10.1/32
           vxlan-local-tunnelip 10.10.10.10
  ...
   auto vxlan0
   iface vxlan0
    bridge-vlan-vni-map 10=10 20=20
    bridge-vids 10 20
    bridge-learning off

   auto br_default
   iface br_default
           bridge-ports swp1 swp2 vxlan0
           bridge-vlan-aware yes
           bridge-vids 10 20
           bridge-pvid 1
   ```

To create a traditional VXLAN device, where each VNI represents a separate device instead of a set of VNIs in a single device model, see {{<link url="VXLAN-Devices" text="VXLAN-Devices">}}.

2. Configure BGP with vtysh commands. The following example commands assign an ASN and router ID to leaf01 and spine01, specify the interfaces between the two BGP peers, and the prefixes to originate. For complete information on how to configure BGP, see {{<link url="Border-Gateway-Protocol-BGP" text="Border Gateway Protocol - BGP">}}.

   {{< tabs "TabID299 ">}}
{{< tab "leaf01 ">}}

```
cumulus@leaf01:~$ sudo vtysh
leaf01# configure terminal
leaf01(config)# router bgp 65101
leaf01(config-router)# bgp router-id 10.10.10.1
leaf01(config-router)# neighbor swp51 remote-as external
leaf01(config-router)# address-family ipv4
leaf01(config-router-af)# network 10.10.10.1/32
leaf01(config-router-af)# end
leaf01# write memory
leaf01# exit
cumulus@leaf01:~$
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "spine01 ">}}

```
cumulus@spine01:~$ sudo vtysh
spine01# configure terminal
spine01(config)# router bgp 65199
spine01(config-router)# bgp router-id 10.10.10.101
spine01(config-router)# neighbor swp1 remote-as external
spine01(config-router)# address-family ipv4
spine01(config-router-af)# network 10.10.10.101/32
spine01(config-router-af)# end
spine01# write memory
spine01# exit
cumulus@spine01:~$
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

3. Activate the EVPN address family and enable EVPN between BGP neighbors. The following example commands enable EVPN between leaf01 and spine01. The commands automatically provision all locally configured VNIs so the BGP control plane can advertise them.

   {{< tabs "TabID338 ">}}
{{< tab "leaf01 ">}}

```
cumulus@leaf01:~$ sudo vtysh

leaf01# configure terminal
leaf01(config)# router bgp 65101
leaf01(config-router)# bgp router-id 10.10.10.1
leaf01(config-router)# neighbor swp51 interface remote-as external
leaf01(config-router)# address-family l2vpn evpn
leaf01(config-router-af)# neighbor swp51 activate
leaf01(config-router-af)# advertise-all-vni
leaf01(config-router-af)# end
leaf01# write memory
leaf01# exit
cumulus@leaf01:~$
```

The vtysh commands create the following configuration snippet in the `/etc/frr/frr.conf` file.

```
...
router bgp 65101
  bgp router-id 10.10.10.1
  neighbor swp51 interface remote-as external
  address-family l2vpn evpn
neighbor swp1 activate
  advertise-all-vni
...
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "spine01 ">}}

```
cumulus@spine01:~$ sudo vtysh

spine01# configure terminal
spine01(config)# router bgp 65199
spine01(config-router)# bgp router-id 10.10.10.101
spine01(config-router)# neighbor swp1 interface remote-as external
spine01(config-router)# address-family l2vpn evpn
spine01(config-router-af)# neighbor swp51 activate
spine01(config-router-af)# end
spine01# write memory
spine01# exit
cumulus@spine01:~$
```

The vtysh commands create the following configuration snippet in the `/etc/frr/frr.conf` file:

```
...
router bgp 65199
  bgp router-id 10.10.10.101
  neighbor swp1 interface remote-as external
  address-family l2vpn evpn
neighbor swp1 activate
...
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{%notice note%}}
You only need to set the `advertise-all-vni` option on leafs that are VTEPs. The switch accepts EVPN routes from a BGP peer even without this option. The routes are in the global EVPN routing table but Cumulus Linux only imports them into the per-VNI routing table and installs the appropriate entries in the kernel when the VNI corresponding to the received route is locally known.
{{%/notice%}}

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

<!-- vale off -->
## EVPN and VXLAN Active-active Mode
<!-- vale on -->
For EVPN in VXLAN active-active mode, both switches in the MLAG pair establish EVPN peering with other EVPN speakers (for example, with spine switches if using hop-by-hop eBGP) and inform about their locally known VNIs and MACs. When MLAG is active, both switches announce this information with the shared anycast IP address.

For active-active configuration, make sure that:

- The `clagd-vxlan-anycast-ip` and `vxlan-local-tunnelip` parameters are under the loopback stanza on both peers.
- Both peers advertise the anycast address to the routed fabric.
- The VNI configuration is identical on both peers.
- The peerlink belongs to the bridge.

MLAG synchronizes information between the two switches in the MLAG pair; EVPN does not synchronize.

For type-5 routes in an EVPN *symmetric* configuration with VXLAN active-active mode, Cumulus Linux uses Primary IP Address Advertisement. For information on configuring Primary IP Address Advertisement, see {{<link url="Inter-subnet-Routing#advertise-primary-ip-address-vxlan-active-active-mode" text="Advertise Primary IP Address">}}.

For information about active-active VTEPs and anycast IP behavior, and for failure scenarios, see {{<link url="VXLAN-Active-active-Mode">}}.

## Considerations

- When you enable EVPN on a VTEP, the switch advertises all its locally defined VNIs and other information, such as MAC addresses, to EVPN peers. There is no provision to only announce certain VNIs.
- You can only use ND suppression on Spectrum_A1 and above.
-  Cumulus Linux enables ARP suppression by default. However, in a {{<link url="VXLAN-Active-active-Mode" text="VXLAN active-active">}} configuration, if the switch does not suppress ARPs, the control plane does not synchronize neighbor entries between the two switches operating in active-active mode. You do not see any impact on forwarding.
- You must configure the overlay (tenants) in a specific VRF and separate from the underlay, which resides in the default VRF. Cumulus Linux does not support layer 3 VNI mapping for the default VRF.
- You cannot configure EVPN with {{<link title="Redistribute Neighbor" >}}. Enabling both features simultaneously causes instability in IPv4 and IPv6 neighbor entries.
- To conform to {{<exlink url="https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6514#section-5" text="RFC 6514">}}, Cumulus Linux implements a stricter check on a received type-3 route to ensure that the PMSI attribute is *ingress-replication*.
